Jose M. Carmena | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Toggle navigation EECS at UC Berkeley Main menuAboutToggle submenu for AboutAbout Overview By the Numbers Diversity History Special Events Visiting AcademicsToggle submenu for AcademicsAcademics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs For Current Students Courses ResearchToggle submenu for ResearchResearch Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleToggle submenu for PeoplePeople Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Students Staff Alumni ConnectToggle submenu for ConnectConnect Overview Support EECS K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Contact Secondary menuHome For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Toggle Search Search form Search Search Home People Faculty Jose M. Carmena Larger Photo Jose M. Carmena Adjunct Professor Info Links Research Areas Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO) Brain-machine interfaces; Neuroprosthetics; Sensorimotor learning and control; Neural ensemble computation Research Centers Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute (HWNI) CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Center for Neural Engineering & Prostheses (CNEP) Biography Jose M. Carmena is the Chancellor's Professor of Electrical Engineering and Neuroscience at the University of California-Berkeley, and Co-Director of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses at UC Berkeley and UCSF. His research program in neural engineering and systems neuroscience is aimed at understanding the neural basis of sensorimotor learning and control, and at building the science and engineering base that will allow the creation of reliable neuroprosthetic systems for the severely disabled. Dr. Carmena received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain) in 1995 and the University of Valencia (Spain) in 1997. Following those he received the M.S. degree in artificial intelligence and the Ph.D. degree in robotics both from the University of Edinburgh (Scotland, UK) in 1998 and 2002 respectively. From 2002 to 2005 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Department of Neurobiology and the Center for Neuroengineering at Duke University (Durham, NC). He is Fellow of the IEEE and member of the Society for Neuroscience, and the Neural Control of Movement Society. Dr. Carmena has been the recipient of the McKnight Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award (2017), Bakar Fellowship (2012), the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society Early Career Achievement Award (2011), the Aspen Brain Forum Prize in Neurotechnology (2010), the National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2010), the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship (2009), the Okawa Foundation Research Grant Award (2007), the UC Berkeley Hellman Faculty Award (2007), and the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship (2003). Education 2002, Ph.D., Robotics, University of Edinburgh, Scotland 1998, M.S., Artificial Intelligence, University of Edinburgh, Scotland 1997, M.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Valencia, Spain 1995, B.S., Electrical Engineering, Polytechnic University of Valencia, Spain Selected Publications M. Shanechi, A. Orsborn, H. Moorman, S. Gowda, S. Dangi, and J. M. Carmena, "Rapid control and feedback rates in the sensorimotor pathway enhance neuroprosthetic control," Nature Communications, Jan. 2017. M. Shanechi, A. Orsborn, and J. M. Carmena, "Robust brain-machine interface design using optimal feedback control modeling and adaptive point process filtering," PLoS Computational Biology, May 2016. D. Seo, R. Neely, K. Shen, S. U, E. Alon, J. M. Rabaey, J. M. Carmena, and M. Maharbiz, "Wireless recording in the peripheral nervous system with ultrasonic neural dust," Neuron, vol. 91, pp. 529-539, April 2016. A. Orsborn, H. Moorman, S. Overduin, M. Shanechi, D. Dimitrov, and J. M. Carmena, "Closed-loop decoder adaptation shapes neural plasticity for skillful neuroprosthetic control," Neuron, vol. 82, pp. 1-14, June 2014. K. Clancy, A. Koralek, R. Costa, D. Feldman, and J. M. Carmena, "Volitional modulation of optically recorded calcium signals during neuroprosthetic learning," Nature Neuroscience, vol. 17, no. 6, pp. 807-810, Feb. 2014. A. Koralek, K. Ganguly, and J. M. Carmena, "Temporally precise cell-specific coherence develops in corticostriatal networks during learning," Neuron, vol. 79, no. 5, pp. 865-87, Oct. 2013. A. Koralek, X. Jin, J. Long, R. Costa, and J. M. Carmena, "Corticostriatal plasticity is necessary for learning intentional neuroprosthetic skills," Nature, vol. 483, no. 7389, pp. 331-335, March 2012. K. Ganguly, D. F. Dimitrov, J. D. Wallis, and J. M. Carmena, "Reversible large-scale modification of cortical networks during neuroprosthetic control," Nature Neuroscience, vol. 14, pp. 662-667, March 2011. R. Canolty, K. Ganguly, S. Kennerley, C. Cadieu, K. Koepsell, J. Wallis, and J. M. Carmena, "Oscillatory phase coupling coordinates anatomically-dispersed functional cell assemblies," PNAS, Sep. 2010. K. Ganguly and J. M. Carmena, "Emergence of a stable cortical map for neuroprosthetic control," PLoS Biology, July 2009. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow, 2017 McKnight Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award, 2017 Bakar Fellow, 2012 Engineering Medicine & Biology Society Early Career Achievement Award, 2011 NSF Faculty Early Career Development Award (CAREER), 2010 Aspen Brain Forum Junior Scientist Prize in Neurotechnology, 2010 Sloan Research Fellow, 2009 Hellman Fellow, 2007 Okawa Research Grant, 2007 Links and Contact Info Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 286 Li Ka Shing Center tel: 643-2430 563 Cory Hall jcarmena@berkeley.edu Research Support "Myra" "Rose" 3-3253 "mrose@berkeley.edu" Home AboutHistory Diversity Visiting Special Events AcademicsUndergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students ResearchAreas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleDirectory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni ResourcesRoom Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads GSIs/Readers/Tutors IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars IndustryRecruit Students Entrepreneurial Activity Corporate Access ConnectSupport Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Contact Home EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Berkley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube 2021 UC Regents Privacy Policy
