Jaijeet Roychowdhury | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Toggle navigation EECS at UC Berkeley Main menuAboutToggle submenu for AboutAbout Overview By the Numbers Diversity History Special Events Visiting AcademicsToggle submenu for AcademicsAcademics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs For Current Students Courses ResearchToggle submenu for ResearchResearch Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleToggle submenu for PeoplePeople Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Students Staff Alumni ConnectToggle submenu for ConnectConnect Overview Support EECS K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Contact Secondary menuHome For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Toggle Search Search form Search Search Home People Faculty Jaijeet Roychowdhury Jaijeet Roychowdhury Professor Info Links Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) Cyber-Physical Systems and Design Automation (CPSDA) Computer Architecture & Engineering (ARC) Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Teaching Schedule Spring 2022 EE 290-5. Ising Machines, MoWe 2:00PM - 3:59PM, Cory 531 Biography Prof. Roychowdhury's Research and Personal pages | Group Publications page | Class pages.Jaijeet Roychowdhury is a Professor of EECS at the University of California at Berkeley. His research interests include machine learning, novel computational paradigms, and the analysis, simulation, verification and design of cyber-physical, electronic, biological, nanoscale and mixed-domain systems. Contributions his group has made include the concept of self-sustaining oscillators for Ising-based and von Neumann computation, novel machine-learning techniques for dynamical systems, theory and techniques for oscillator phase macromodels, injection locking and phase noise, multi-time partial differential equations, techniques for model reduction of time-varying and nonlinear systems, and open-source infrastructures for reproducible research.Roychowdhury received a Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, India, in 1987, and a Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from UC Berkeley in 1993. From 1993 to 1995, he was with the Computer-Aided Design (CAD) Laboratory, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Allentown, PA. From 1995 to 2000, he was with the Communication Sciences Research Division, Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ. From 2000 to 2001, he was with CeLight Inc. (an optical networking startup), Silver Spring, MD. From 2001-2008, he was with the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department and the Digital Technology Center at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis.Roychowdhury was cited for Extraordinary Achievement by Bell Laboratories in 1996 for work on MOS homotopy. His student Tianshi Wang and he won the Bell Labs Prize in 2019 for their work on Oscillator Ising Machines. Over the years, he has authored or co-authored seven best papers and a distinguished paper. He has served on technical and administrative committees within several conferences and professional organizations, including ICCAD, DAC, DATE, ASP-DAC and CEDA. Roychowdhury was a co-founder of Berkeley Design Automation, a startup later acquired by Mentor Graphics. He is a Fellow of the IEEE. Education 1993, PhD, EECS, Berkeley 1989, MS, EECS, Berkeley 1987, B.Tech., EE, IIT Kanpur Selected Publications T. Wang and J. Roychowdhury, "[Best Paper] OIM: Oscillator-based Ising Machines for Solving Combinatorial Optimization Problems," Proc. Unconventional Computation and Natural Computation. UCNC 2019., vol. 11493, pp. 232-256, June 2019. T. Wang and J. Roychowdhury, "Rigorous Q Factor Formulation and Characterization for Nonlinear Oscillators," arXiv, vol. 1710, no. 02015, Oct. 2017. T. Wang and J. Roychowdhury, " Well-Posed Models of Memristive Devices," arXiv, vol. 1605, no. 04897, May 2016. J. Roychowdhury, "General-Purpose Boolean Computation Using Sub-Harmonic Injection Locking in Self-Sustaining Oscillators," Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 103, no. 11, pp. 1958-1969, Nov. 2015. T. Wang, K. Aadithya, B. Wu, J. Yao, and J. Roychowdhury, "MAPP: The Berkeley Model and Algorithm Prototyping Platform," in Proc. Custom Integrated Circuits Conference, 2015. T. Wang and J. Roychowdhury, "PHLOGON: PHase-based LOGic using Oscillatory Nanosystems," in Proc. Unconventional Computation and Natural Computation: 13th International Conference, UCNC 2014, London, ON, Canada, July 14-18, 2014, LNCS sublibrary: Theoretical computer science and general issues, Springer, 2014. K. Aadithya, S. Ray, P. Nuzzo, A. Mishchenko, R. K. Brayton, and J. Roychowdhury, "ABCD-NL: Approximating Continuous Non-Linear Dynamical Systems using Purely Boolean Models for Analog/Mixed-Signal Verification," in Proc. IEEE Asia South-Pacific Design Automation Conference, 2014. K. Aadithya, A. Demir, S. Venugopalan, and J. Roychowdhury, "Accurate Prediction of Random Telegraph Noise Effects in SRAMs and DRAMs," IEEE Trans. Computer-Aided Design, Jan. 2013. R. K. Balachandran, J. Roychowdhury, K. Dorfman, and V. Barocas, "Telescopic Time-Scale Bridging for Modeling Dispersion in Rapidly Oscillating Flows," AIChE Journal, July 2012. A. Neogy and J. Roychowdhury, "Analysis and design of sub-harmonically injection locked oscillators," in Proc. IEEE DATE, 2012. D. Amsallem and J. Roychowdhury, "ModSpec: An Open, Flexible Specification Framework for Multi-Domain Device Modelling," in Proc. IEEE ICCAD, 2011. J. Roychowdhury, "Hierarchical Abstraction of Phase Response Curves of Synchronized Systems of Coupled Oscillators," arXiv, June 2011. P. Bhansali and J. Roychowdhury, "Injection Locking Analysis and Simulation of Weakly Coupled Oscillator Networks," in Advanced Simulation and Verification of Electronic and Biological Systems, Springer, 2011. C. Gu and J. Roychowdhury, "Generalized Nonlinear Timing/Phase Macromodeling: Theory, Numerical Methods and Applications," in Proc. IEEE ICCAD, 2010. C. Gu and J. Roychowdhury, "Computing Probabilistic Hypervolumes," in Extreme Statistics in Nanoscale Memory Design (Integrated Circuits and Systems), Springer, 2010. J. Roychowdhury, Numerical Simulation and Modelling of Electronic and Biochemical Systems, Foundations and Trends in Electronic Design Automation, NOW Publishers, 2009. C. Gu and J. Roychowdhury, "Model Reduction via Projection onto Nonlinear Manifolds, with Applications to Analog Circuits and Biochemical Systems," in Proc. IEEE ICCAD, 2008. N. R. Shanbhag, S. Mitra, G. de Veciana, M. Orshansky, R. Marculescu, J. Roychowdhury, D. Jones, and J. M. Rabaey, "The search for alternative computational paradigms," IEEE Design & Test of Computers, vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 334-343, July 2008. S. Srivastava and J. Roychowdhury, "Independent and interdependent latch setup/hold time characterization via Newton-Raphson solution and Euler curve tracking on state-transition equations," IEEE Trans. Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 27, no. 5, pp. 817-830, May 2008. S. Agarwal and J. Roychowdhury, "Efficient multiscale simulation of circadian rhythms using automated phase macromodelling techniques," in Proc. 13th Pacific Symp. on Biocomputing (PSB 2008), R. B. Altman, A. K. Dunker, L. Hunter, T. Murray, and T. E. Klein, Eds., Vol. 13, Singapore: World Scientific Publishing Company, 2008, pp. 402-413. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Nokia Bell Labs Prize, 2019 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Fellow, 2009 Links and Contact Info Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 545E Cory Hall tel: 643-5664 jr@berkeley.edu Research Support "Sarah" "Gaugler" null "sarunyon@berkeley.edu" Home AboutHistory Diversity Visiting Special Events AcademicsUndergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students ResearchAreas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleDirectory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni ResourcesRoom Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads GSIs/Readers/Tutors IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars IndustryRecruit Students Entrepreneurial Activity Corporate Access ConnectSupport Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Contact Home EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Berkley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube 2021 UC Regents Privacy Policy
