Research in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering - Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering - The University of Texas at Arlington Skip to main content Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Visit Give Apply Student Life Student Life Overview Activities & Organizations Housing & Dining Student Services Health & Recreation Traditions Veteran Services Fraternities & Sororities Academics Academics Overview Explore Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate School Distance Education Professional Development Academic Support Student Success Academic Calendar Courses & Schedules Schools & Colleges Architecture, Planning, & Public Affairs Business Education Engineering Honors College Liberal Arts Nursing & Health Innovation Science Social Work UTA Fort Worth Admissions Admissions Overview Apply Visit Events Parents Tuition and Affordability Admitted Students Contact Us Research Research Overview Administrative Offices Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Innovation & Commercialization Centers & Institutes Funding Resources McNair Scholars Athletics Athletics UTAMavs.com Official Merchandise Buy Tickets Join the Maverick Club News About About Overview Fast Facts Rankings and Recognition Careers Our Alumni Facilities Administration Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Apply Search UTA Open Search Field College of Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Faculty Research Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Home About MAE Current Students Events Senior Projects Faculty Directory Faculty Research Support Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Home About MAE Current Students Overview Students Advising - Undergraduates Advising - Graduate Students Graduate Frequently Asked Questions ME Ph.D. Comprehensive Exam ME Ph.D. Qualifying Exam Events Overview Events Events 3D Printed Aircraft Competition Senior Projects Faculty Directory Faculty Research Support Research in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Research Labs in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Dramatic, measurable advancements continue to propel UTA toward its goal of becoming one of the nations premier research institutions. The University is designated an R-1 Carnegie highest research activity institution, putting it in an elite group. The College of Engineering accounts for nearly half of the universitys research expenditures each year. Advanced Materials and Structures Lab The Advanced Materials and Structures Lab is using its state-of-the-art facilities and an innovative approach to enable a fundamental shift from relying on the traditional time-consuming trial-and-error experimentation loops and empiricism in the design of composite materials and structures, to efficient diagnostics and prognosis methods. These rely upon three-dimensional imaging and performance prediction based on accurate computational tools. Advanced Materials and Structures Lab Advanced Sensor Technology Lab The Advanced Sensor Technology Laboratory focuses on developing state-of-the-art sensor technologies for Structural Health Monitoring and bio-medical applications and providing a multi-disciplinary learning environment for the students to participate in world class research activities. Advanced Sensor Technology Lab A.E. Petsche Center for Automotive Engineering The Petsche Center promotes engineering education, innovation and entrepreneurship, especially through student participation in the Formula Society of Automotive Engineers (FSAE) program. Each year, participating students design an FSAE car from the tires up; they then race their vehicles against collegiate teams from across the country. Aerodynamics Research Center The Aerodynamics Research Center has existed at the university in one form or another since the 1930s, when it was originally an aircraft maintenance and fabrication facility. The present ARC was built in 1986, allowing for a large expansion of equipment which now includes low-speed, transonic, supersonic, arc jet, and hypersonic tunnels. Aerodynamics Research Center Aerospace Systems Laboratory The Aerospace Systems Laboratory conducts research in modeling, simulation, control and estimation of mechanical and aerospace systems from a systems perspective. Over the past few years, we have looked at diverse mechanical and aerospace systems. Theoretical contributions, numerical simulations, algorithms and software span several applications. Aerospace Systems Lab Center for Renewable Energy and Science Technology (CREST) CREST serves as a center of excellence in energy research and development in Texas. The technologies and intellectual properties that will accrue from this major initiative address important national energy needs and will promote local and regional economic development by spawning spin-off companies and technology licensing. Electronics, MEMS and Nanotechnology Systems Packaging Center The Electronics, MEMS and Nanotechnology Systems Packaging Center is a first-class research center that meets the needs of industry, and in particular, the state of Texas and the North Texas region's "Electronic, MEMS and Nanoelectronics Packaging Industry". This includes research, education and training. EMNSPC will target the needs of the Microelectronics, MEMS and Nanoelectronics (with a special emphasis on thermo mechanical issues) as a fundamental research area as these technologies have... EMNSPC Lab Manufacturing Automation and Robotic Systems The Manufacturing Automation and Robotic Systems Lab is a dual-purpose lab, catering to both academic research and industry-sponsored research. Academically, it is used as a teaching environment for manufacturing, automation and robotics-based classes and/or research where hands on robotic instruction is encouraged at both the graduate and undergraduate level. Industry-funded research projects involve automated workcell studies using state of the art hardware and software tools. Manufacturing Automation and Robotic Systems Lab Microscale Thermophysics Laboratory The Microscale Thermophysics Lab carries out research and education activities in microscale thermal transport in engineering devices and systems. The lab hosts state-of-the-art equipment to facilitate research in microscale heat transfer and computing resources for analytical and numerical modeling. Microscale Thermophysics Lab Multiscale Mechanics and Physics Lab The Multiscale Mechanics and Physics Lab investigates multiscale mechanical behavior of engineered and biological materials to develop advanced materials for structural/biomedical applications and predict failure and fracture properties of nano/biomaterials. This includes computational biomechanics, computational material design and advanced manufacturing. Multiscale Mechanics and Physics Lab Turbomachinery and Energy Systems Laboratory Turbomachinery are one of the core technologies for most traditional and green power generation systems such as fuel cells (clean air/gas delivery systems), micro gas turbines (MGT) with various fossil and bio fuels, winds, and solar-thermal systems. TESLAB Vibro-Acoustics and Sound Quality Research Laboratory The Vibro-Acoustics and Sound Quality Research Laboratorys mission is to produce excellent engineers and scientists. To achieve this mission, research and development focuses on powertrain/structure noise and vibration, computational and experimental vibro-acoustics, active noise and vibration control and vehicle interior and sound quality design. Vibro-Acoustics and Sound Quality Research Lab Research Areas The departmental laboratories contain diverse modern equipment and instruments, permitting a varied experimental program. These include laboratories for automatic controls and systems engineering, fluid power and fluids, automotive engineering, computer-aided design and manufacturing, dynamics and vibration, materials science, composite materials, smart structures, robotics, thermal sciences, computational and experimental fluid dynamics, turbulence, aerodynamics, aerothermodynamics, propulsion, flight dynamics, guidance, navigation, and control. Research areas include: Design, Manufacturing, and Multidisciplinary Optimization Dynamic Systems and Control Fluid Mechanics, Aerodynamics and Propulsion Structural Mechanics and Optimization Thermal Science and Energy Systems Undergraduate Applicants Let Us Know About You Undergraduate Programs in Catalog Apply Graduate Applicants Aerospace Engineering Info Request Mechanical Engineering Info Request Graduate Programs in Catalog Apply Contacts MAE Administrative Office WH 211 817-272-2603 MAE Academic Advising WH 204 & WH 206 817-272-2561 Deliveries Woolf Hall, Room 211 500 West First Street Arlington, TX 76019 Mailing Address Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering The University of Texas at Arlington Box 19018 Arlington, TX 76019-0018 Phone/Email Phone:817-272-2561 Email Advisors: maeundergrad@uta.edu maegradadvising@uta.edu Apply for Admission Request Info Visit Campus Give Contact Us People Directory Campus Maps Careers Help UTA Mobile App The University of Texas at Arlington 701 S. Nedderman Drive Arlington, TX 76019 817-272-2011 Emergency PreparednessMental Health ResourcesNondiscrimination and Title IXPrivacy and Legal NoticeAccessibilitySite PoliciesReport Sexual MisconductInstitutional ResumeUT SystemState of TexasTexas Veterans PortalStatewide SearchReport FraudCARES Act Federal Disclosures 2021 The University of Texas at Arlington
