Faculty Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/ginacody/computer-science-software-eng/faculty.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) About CSSE Expend Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Expend Computer Science Software Engineering Course sequences Students Expend Undergraduate students Graduate students Student & professional associations Faculty & research Expend Research centres Researchers by expertise Research groups News & accolades Events The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Site search Concordia Directories Search Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) Concordia.ca / Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science / Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering / Faculty Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Brigitte Jaumard, PhD Professor, Computer Science and Software Engineering Biography Research activities Office: S-ER 1027 ER Building,2155 Guy St. Phone: (514) 848-2424 ext. 5380 Email: brigitte.jaumard@concordia.ca Website(s): Please visit Dr. Jaumard's personal website. Research areas Algorithm Design Combinatorial Optimization Networking Artificial Intelligence Transportation Logistics Network Design and Planning Optical Networks Wireless Networks Cloud Computing Operations Research Large Scale Optimization Research activities Adaptive Slicing for Intelligent Network Automation (Collaboration with Ciena) Network slicing constructs different logical networks (i.e., slices) on a unified physical infrastructure via Software-Defined Networking (SDN), network function virtualization (NFV), and cloud computing. Network slicing allows the support of highly diverse services, with possibly conflicting requirements, on a single infrastructure through an independent configuration of each network slice. Each slice in such an architecture is an end-to-end virtualized network instance and is tailored in terms of resources to meet the requirements of the services. The objective of the research problem is to design and manage a closed-loop mechanism to enforce the Quality of Service (QoS) throughout the lifecycle of each slice. Such a closed-loop mechanism is made possible thanks to SDN, i.e., a network architecture approach that enables the network to be intelligently and centrally controlled, or programmed, using software applications. The closed-loop will therefore rely on SDN to easily and quickly manage, configure and (re-)optimize network resources with dynamic automated and proprietary-free programs, but also on big data and machine learning models and algorithms for the management of robust and reliable cognitive network slicing. The closed-loop mechanism is required in order to achieve all that 5G wants to offers. A denser, fiber-rich network infrastructure needs to deliver the key performance indicators (KPIs): lower latency, higher data rates, ultra-high reliability and more connected devices. For that reason, the building blocks of the research project will be organized around the required KPIs. Output of the projects should be a set of programs/software taking care of the automated definition of slices and of machine learning models and algorithms for the end-to-end QoS assurance and management in 5G slices. Detection and Prediction of Network Vulnerabilities with Machine Learning Models and Algorithms (Collaboration with EXFO) The project investigates the research and development of static and dynamic autonomous network management agents that collected datasets from EXFO network monitoring systems, we will research, analyze, design and develop machine learning models and algorithms adapted to the analysis of time series. These algorithms can be used as part of network monitoring toolsets to dynamically monitor the network behaviors. They will also allow real-time network faults detection/prediction, performance anomalies, and cyber threats. Machine learning models and algorithms will be tailored to assess the potential service impact of these faults, anomalies, and threats. This assessment will lead to the recommendation of mitigations and solutions, along with their expected impact on the network. In non-real-time contexts, we will analyze performance data collected over significant time periods and correlate them with the evolution of the network in terms of variables, such as topology and configuration. This performance data analysis will allow the identification of network areas with poor system performance and reliability. Return to faculty list Contact CSSE 514-848-2424, ext. 3000 reception@cse.concordia.ca Visit the Department 2155 Guy St. ER 1075 Montreal, QC H3H 2L9 Mailing address Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. ER 1075 Montreal, QC H3G 1M8 CANADA Back to top Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 Inside CSSE About the department Programs Students Faculty & research News & events Job opportunities Gina Cody School Departments Accreditations Leadership Student services IT support (AITS) Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: ER Building Room ER 1075 See building map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept Privacy policy
