Juan Jos Cuadrado Gallego Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/ginacody/computer-science-software-eng/profiles/juan-jose-cuadrado-gallego.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) About CSSE Expend Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Expend Computer Science Software Engineering Course sequences Students Expend Undergraduate students Graduate students Student & professional associations Faculty & research Expend Research centres Researchers by expertise Research groups News & accolades Events The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for... Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) Concordia.ca / Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science / Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering / Juan Jos Cuadrado Gallego Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Juan Jos Cuadrado Gallego Affiliate Associate Professor, Computer Science and Software Engineering Email: Publications as Concordia University Affiliate Associate Professor A. Alcaide, M.A. Patricio, A. Berlanga, A. Arroyo, and J.J. Cuadrado-Gallego, " LIPSNN: A Light Intrusion-Proving SiameseNeural Network Model for Facial Verification," The International Journal of Interactive Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence, Accepted for Publication. A. Luis, P. Casares, J.J. Cuadrado-Gallego, and M.A. Patricio, "PSON: A Serialization Format for IoT Sensor Netwrks," Sensors 21, no. 13: 4559. https://doi.org/10.3390/s21134559. Jul. 2021. E. Quesada, J.J. Cuadrado-Gallego, M.A. Patricio and L. Usero, "Outlier Detection Transilience-Probabilistic Model for Wind Tunnels Based on Sensor Data," Sensors 21, no. 7: 2532. https://doi.org/10.3390/s21072532. Apr. 2021. J. J. Cuadrado-Gallego, M.A. Losada, Y. Demchenko and O. Ormandjieva, "Classification and Analysis of Techniques and Tools for Data Visualization Teaching," in \texit{Prof. 12th IEEE Global Enginnering Education Conference, EDUCON 2021, Special Session Data Science Education}, Vienna, Austria, Apr. 21-23, 2021. J. J. Cuadrado-Gallego, T. Wiktorski and S. Brewer, "EDISON Data Science Framework (EDSF): Addressing Demand for Data Science and Analytics Competences for the Digital Data Driven Economy," in \texit{Prof. 12th IEEE Global Enginnering Education Conference, EDUCON 2021, Special Session Data Science Education}, Vienna, Austria, Apr. 21-23, 2021. Current Positions Affiliate Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering of the Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science of the Concordia University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Since 2020. Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science of the Polytechnic School of the University of Alcal, Madrid, Spain. Since 2008. Previous Positions Affiliate Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering of the Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science of the Concordia University, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 2016-2019. Associate Professor at the Software and Information Technology Engineering Department of the cole de Technologie Suprieure of the Universit du Qubec, Montreal, Canada. 2009-2016. Visiting Professor at the Department of Postgraduate and Research Studies of the National Polytechnic Institute, Mexico City, Mexico, 2009-2014. Interim Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science of the Polytechnic School of the University of Alcal, Madrid, Spain. 2004-2008. Lecturer at the Department of Computer Sciences of the Computer Science Engineering School of the University of Valladolid, Segovia, Spain. 2004. Lecturer at the Faculty of Computer Science, Multimedia and Telecommunications of the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain (On line). 2004-2016. Lecturer at the Computer Science Department of the Polytechnic School of the University Carlos III of Madrid, Madrid, Spain. 1997-2004. Researcher at the Astrophysics and Atmospheric Sciences of the Faculty of Physics Sciences of the Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain. 1994-1997. Previous Teaching Staff Positions under the Program Socrates-Erasmus Computer Science Department, Institut fr Verteilte Systeme, Computer Science Faculty of the Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany. In 2011, 2009 and 2008. Computer Science and Automation Department of the University Roma Tre, Roma, Italy. In 2003 Academic Degrees Ph.D. in Computer Science Engineering from the University Carlos III de Madrid, Spain MRes in Physics from the University Complutense de Madrid, Spain BSc in Physics from the University Complutense de Madrid, Spain Research Stays Otto-von-Guericke-University, Magdeburg, Germany. Researcher at the Institt fr Verteilte Systeme, Fakltat fr Informatik. In 2021 [Funded by Art. 83 Project]. 2013 [Funded by a mobility grant from the University of Alcal]. 2011 and 2012 [Sabbatical year granted by the University of Alcal. Funded by ID3 Evaluation]. 2009 [Funded by a "Jos Castillejo" mobility grant for futher study and research from the University of Alcal] University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands. Researcher at the Informatics Institute, Faculty of Science. In 2018 [Funded by a mobility grant from the University of Alcal] University of Quebec, Montreal, Canada. Researcher at the cole de Technologie Suprieure. In 2005 and 2006 [Both of them Founded by CYCIT Project] University of Reading, Reading, UK. Researcher at the Computer Science Department. In 2004 and 2005. University Roma Tre, Roma, Italy. Researcher at the Dipartamento di Informatica e Automatizacione. In 2003 and 2004. Ph.D. Dissertations Supervised 9 Ph.D. Dissertations supervised at Polytechinc University and University of Alcal, Madrid, Spain; and Polytechnic National Institute, Mexico D.F., Mexico; including the following: R. Chvez, " Mathematical models of conversion between measures of software functionality in the development project efficiency" National Polytechnic Institute, City of Mexico, Mexico, 2014 M. Garre, "Application of clustering techniques to estimate the effort in software projects development" Computer Science Department, University of Alcal, Madrid, Spain, 2006. O. Marbn, "Parametric mathematical model for data mining projects estimation" Polytechnic University, Madrid, Spain, 2003. Co-supervised with E. Menasalvas. Back to top Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 Inside CSSE About the department Programs Students Faculty & research News & events Job opportunities Gina Cody School Departments Accreditations Leadership Student services IT support (AITS) Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: ER Building Room ER 1075 See building map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept Privacy policy
