Faculty Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/ginacody/computer-science-software-eng/faculty.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) About CSSE Expend Faculty members Staff Job opportunities Programs Expend Computer Science Software Engineering Course sequences Students Expend Undergraduate students Graduate students Student & professional associations Faculty & research Expend Research centres Researchers by expertise Research groups News & accolades Events The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Site search Concordia Directories Search Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering (CSSE) Concordia.ca / Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science / Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering / Faculty Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty Todd Eavis, PhD Associate Professor, Computer Science and Software Engineering Biography Teaching activities Research activities Publications Office: S-ER 1233 ER Building,2155 Guy St. Phone: (514) 848-2424 ext. 5372 Email: todd.eavis@concordia.ca Todd Eavis received his PhD in 2003 from Dalhousie University in Halifax and was an NSERC postdoctoral fellow at Carleton University in Ottawa. He joined the faculty of Concordia University in 2004, where he is currently anAssociate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering. His general research focus is the design of programming languages and software development environments. Teaching activities Dr Eavis's teaching includes courses with a focus on programming languages and system architectures. Classes that he has taught include: COMP 228: System Hardware COMP 248: Object Oriented Programming I COMP 249: Object Oriented Programming II COMP 346: Operating Systems COMP 348: Principles of Programming Languages COMP 352: Data Structures and Algorithms COMP 353: Databases COMP 428: Parallel Programming COMP 444: Systems Programming COMP 451: Database Design COMP 6411: Comparative Programming Languages (Graduate level) COMP 6521: Advanced Database Applications (Graduate level) Research activities Dr. Eavis's current research explores issues related to the design of more approachable software development frameworks. The overarching objective is not only a reduction in the opacity and sheer scale of contemporary language syntax but, perhaps even more importantly, a concomitant reduction in the complexity, fragility, and inflexibility of the build environments meant to support these languages. Ultimately, the aim is to allow the developer to focus more fully on "what" an application is expected to do, rather than "how" one actually convinces a computer to do it. A few representative themes include: 90/10 syntax (90% of the functionality, with 10% of the obscurity) Extensive code generation (why write what can be inferred) Platform agnostic development (portability without severe performance degradation) Seamless delivery to the Cloud (the desktop is dead - long live the Cloud) Transparent builds (nobody deserves to maintain a build system ) Continuous Integration/Delivery as the default (waterfalls are for fish, not software) Integrated coding, unit testing, and delivery (the natural outcome of the other targets) Publications The eventual distribution target for the current work is the Open Source community, as opposed to imprisonment behind the customary paywall. For the sake of completeness, a random sample of old, completely unrelated publications, is below. Others can be found on DBLP. Omer Baluch and Todd Eavis, "Soft Real-time OLAP: Exploiting modern hardware without breaking the bank",1st International Workshop on High Performance Computing for Big Data (in conjunction with the 43rd International Conference on Parallel Processing), Minneapolis, USA, 2014. A. Taleb, T. Eavis, and H. Tabbara, "Query optimization for the NOX OLAP algebra",LNCS Transactions on Large-Scale Data and Knowledge-Centered Systems, 2013. Todd Eavis and Ahmad Taleb, "Query optimization and execution in a parallel analytics DBMS",International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS),Shanghai, China, 2012. T. Eavis, X. Zheng, "Multi-level Frequent Pattern Mining",Database Systems for Advanced Applications (DASFAA), Brisbane, Australia, 2009. Y. Chen, F. Dehne, T. Eavis, and A. Rau-Chaplin, "PnP: Sequential, External Memory, and Parallel Iceberg Cube Computation",Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 2008. Y. Chen, F. Dehne, T. Eavis, A. Rau-Chaplin, D. Green, E. Sithirasenan, cgmCube: Efficient Parallel Generation and Querying of Terabyte Size ROLAP Data Cubes",International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), Atlanta, USA, 2006. Return to faculty list Contact CSSE 514-848-2424, ext. 3000 reception@cse.concordia.ca Visit the Department 2155 Guy St. ER 1075 Montreal, QC H3H 2L9 Mailing address Department of Computer Science & Software Engineering 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. ER 1075 Montreal, QC H3G 1M8 CANADA Back to top Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 Inside CSSE About the department Programs Students Faculty & research News & events Job opportunities Gina Cody School Departments Accreditations Leadership Student services IT support (AITS) Mailing address: Sir George William Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Location: ER Building Room ER 1075 See building map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept Privacy policy
