Kenneth Jerina | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Academics Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Faculty Teaching Awards Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Engineering Summer School Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Emerging Leader Awards Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News A new way to deliver vaccines to the elderly without inflammation 07.26.2021 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Celebrating Black History Month Women & Engineering About Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop Tour our buildings About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions summer school Home Faculty Kenneth Jerina Kenneth Jerina Senior Professor Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science klj@wustl.edu Education DSc, Washington University in St. Louis, 1974MSc, Washington University in St. Louis, 1971BSc, University of Illinois, 1969 Expertise Studies fatigue and fracture behavior of structural materials Research Kenneth L. Jerinas research has been funded by government and industry and encompasses life prediction related to aircraft structure, constitutive modeling for engineering design, and fatigue behavior of structural materials. He has authored and co-authored 75 scholarly papers on: fatigue of conventional and advanced metallic, polymeric and composite materials; constitutive models for engineering design that are accurate and reliable; measurement of mechanical, time dependent and fatigue properties of silicone elastomers. He has mentored 35 Master and Doctoral students and advised numerous thesis and dissertation graduate students. Biography Professor Jerina is the Earl E. and Myrtle E. Walker Professor of Engineering and Associate Chairman of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Washington University in St. Louis. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics from the University of Illinois, his MS in Mechanical Engineering from Washington University, and a DSc in Mechanical Engineering, also from Washington University. Prior to returning to St. Louis to join the faculty of Washington University, Professor Jerina was a Materials Research Engineer at the Air Force Materials Laboratory, Director of the Experimental Mechanics Research Laboratory at MTS Systems Corporation, and Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering at Texas A&M University. Over the course of his academic and industrial career, Professor Jerina has addressed a variety of engineering needs that are particularly relevant to materials engineering and has received numerous honors and awards including Outstanding Professional Engineer in Education from the Missouri Society of Professional Engineers (2014), ASTM Award of Appreciation (2013), Washington University School of Engineering Dean's Award for Extraordinary Service (2013), Washington University School of Engineering Excellence in Teaching Award (2011) and ASTM Award of Merit (2003) among others. In 2003, he was named Fellow of The American Society for Testing and Materials. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering MSC: 1100-122-303 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2021 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
