Guy Genin | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Academics Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Faculty Teaching Awards Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Engineering Summer School Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Emerging Leader Awards Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News A new way to deliver vaccines to the elderly without inflammation 07.26.2021 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Celebrating Black History Month Women & Engineering About Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop Tour our buildings About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions summer school Home Faculty Guy Genin Guy Genin Harold and Kathleen Faught Professor of Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Phone314-935-5660 OfficeJubel Hall, Room 103F genin@wustl.edu Lab website Education PhD, Harvard University, 1997SM, Harvard University, 1993MS, Case Western Reserve University, 1992BSCE, Case Western Reserve University, 1990 Expertise Studies interfaces & adhesion in physiology & nature Focus Mechanobiology, biomechanics, quantitative image analysis, interfaces and adhesion Research Guy Genin studies interfaces and adhesion in nature, physiology, and engineering. His current research focuses on interfaces between tissues at the attachment of tendon to bone, between cells in cardiac fibrosis, and between protein structures at the periphery of plant and animal cells. Biography Guy Genin studies the mechanobiology of interfaces and adhesion in nature, physiology, and engineering. His research aims to understand and harness the role of force in living systems. Through these efforts, Genin and his group are working to advance path-breaking solutions, including engineered scaffolds for tissue repair and regeneration, improved reconstructive surgery, therapy for tissue inflammation and fibrosis, and hardier crops that require fewer resources. Genin is a faculty member in the departments of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science and Biomedical Engineering in the McKelvey School of Engineering and the Department of Neurosurgery in the School of Medicine. He is the McDonnell International Scholars Academy Ambassador to Xi'an Jiaotong University in China, where he serves as the Thousand Talents Plan Professor of Life Sciences. Genin co-directs the Center for Engineering MechanoBiology, a Science and Technology Center funded by the National Science Foundation and housed at Washington University and the University of Pennsylvania, with several other satellite locations. He is also chief engineer for the university's Center for Innovation in Neuroscience and Technology and is Chief Technology Officer for the St. Louis mechanobiology start-up Caelivascular, LLC. A fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering, Genin has served on the editorial boards of numerous journals. He co-chairs the working group on integrated multiscale biomechanics experiment and modeling for the Interagency Modeling and Analysis Group of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Genin is the recipient of numerous awards for engineering design, teaching, and research, including a Research Career Award from NIH; the Skalak Medal from ASME; the Changjiang Scholar Award from the Chinese Ministry of Education; the Northcutt-Coil Professor of the Year Award from the McKelvey School of Engineering; the Founders Day Distinguished Faculty Award from the Washington University Alumni Association; and Professor of the Year from the Washington University Student Union. Genin joined the Washington University faculty in 1999. He earned a bachelors and a masters degree from Case Western Reserve University and a masters degree and doctorate in applied mechanics and solid mechanics from Harvard University. He completed postdoctoral training at Cambridge and Brown universities. Affiliations Center for Engineering Mechanobiology The Institute of Materials Science & Engineering Center for Innovation in Neuroscience and Technology In the News A tough attachment between tendon, bone achieved through unique fibrous architecture Research in Guy Genins lab serves as model for merging materials. 11.26.2021 Synthetic biology yields easy-to-use underwater adhesives Researchers in Fuzhong Zhang's lab cherry-picked properties from the animal world to develop a biocompatible, adhesive gel. 11.16.2021 Potential mechanical triggers behind inherited heart disease focus of new study Nathaniel Huebsch receives nearly $2 million NIH grant. 08.20.2021 Find more news about Guy Genin Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering MSC: 1100-122-303 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2021 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
