Faculty Openings | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Academics Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Faculty Teaching Awards Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Engineering Summer School Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Emerging Leader Awards Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News A new way to deliver vaccines to the elderly without inflammation 07.26.2021 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Celebrating Black History Month Women & Engineering About Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop Tour our buildings About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions summer school Home Faculty Faculty Openings Faculty Faculty Openings Faculty openings and positions available in the McKelvey School of Engineering View current faculty openings by department: Biomedical EngineeringComputer Science & EngineeringElectrical & Systems EngineeringEnergy, Environmental & Chemical EngineeringMechanical Engineering & Materials ScienceInstitute of Materials Science & Engineering Biomedical Engineering Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, Full Professor) TheDepartment of Biomedical Engineeringin theMcKelvey School of Engineeringat Washington University in St. Louis, is eager to announce plans to hire tenure-track and tenured faculty at all levels with a focus on growing our research efforts and educational programs in our areas ofprimary research interest. Diversity and inclusion arecore values at Washington Universityin the McKelvey School of Engineering, and the strong candidate will demonstrate an ability to create inclusive classrooms and research environments in which a students from many different backgrounds can learn and thrive. Washington University is a private university with roughly 7,000 full-time undergraduates and 7,000 graduate students. It is nationally known for the exceptional quality of its student body and for its resource-rich campus, which borders residential neighborhoods and one of the nations largest urban parks. Many faculty walk or bike to work. St. Louis combines a Midwest cost of living with a vibrant metropolitan area, offering a wealth of cultural and entertainment opportunities. Qualifications Applicants must hold a PhD degree in biomedical engineering, bioengineering or related field, and will be expected to maintain an extramurally funded research program. The successful candidate will establish an independent research program, advise doctoral students, teach undergraduate and graduate courses, and develop collaborations with other faculty members and programs across the institution. Applications are sought from candidates with a demonstrated record of research scholarship in any biomedical engineering disciplinary area. Application Instructions Applicants should send: (1) a curriculum vitae; (2) a statement of research plans (not to exceed 3 pages); (3) a statement of teaching interests and philosophy (not to exceed 1 page); and (4) a list of three references to http://apply.interfolio.com/98756. For full consideration, submit applications by January 10, 2022.Professor Kurt Thoroughman, search committee chair, can address academic or research related questions. Administrative questions may be addressed to Ms. Karen Teasdale. Either may be contacted by email atbme@wustl.edu. Computer Science & Engineering Faculty Positions (Assistant/Associate/Full Professor) The Department of Computer Science & Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis has tenure-track faculty openings beginning on or after July 1, 2022. We seek outstanding faculty at all ranks and in all areas of computer science & engineering who will build transformative research programs in their core disciplines and through interdisciplinary collaborations. Candidates with expertise in imaging/vision and autonomous systems (Cyber-Physical systems + AI/Machine Learning) are especially encouraged to apply. Successful candidates should show exceptional promise for research leadership and a strong commitment to high-quality teaching. Candidates are expected to publish their research in peer-reviewed conferences and journals, teach, and participate in department and university service. The usual teaching load is one course per semester. Diversity and inclusion are core values at Washington University, and candidates should demonstrate the ability to create inclusive classrooms and environments in which a diverse array of students can learn and thrive. Applicants must hold a doctorate in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a closely related field. Qualified applicants should submit a complete application (cover letter, curriculum vitae, research statement, teaching statement, and diversity statement) at http://apply.interfolio.com/97509 and arrange for at least three letters of references to be directly submitted through Interfolio on their behalf. Applications may be accepted and reviewed until the position is filled, but all applications received before December 15, 2021, will be given full consideration. Please contact recruiting@cse.wustl.edu for questions related to this search. Washington University is a private university with roughly 7,000 full-time undergraduates and 7,000 graduate students. It is nationally known for the exceptional quality of its student body and for its attractive campus, which borders residential neighborhoods and one of the nations largest urban parks. Many faculty members walk or bike to work. St. Louis combines a Midwest cost of living with a vibrant metropolitan area, offering a wealth of cultural and entertainment opportunities. Our faculty and staff are known for our collegiality and for providing a supportive environment for new arrivals. Washington University in St. Louis is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunity and especially encourages applications by those underrepresented in their academic fields. It is the Universitys policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or genetic information. Open Lecturer Position The Department of Computer Science & Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis invites applicants for the position of Lecturer (1 year engagement, renewable) or, for highly experienced candidates, Senior Lecturer (3+ year engagement, renewable after the first year). Of particular interest are candidates with expertise and teaching interests in either of the following two areas: Data science and its applications; Cyberphysical systems and security. This position is part of the schools recently created teaching track, which strives to provide competitive, long-term career paths in support of the schools teaching mission. As a teaching faculty you will play a key role in maintaining the Schools global reputation for high quality education. The expected start date is Fall 2022, i.e., on or before September 1, 2022. Duties include: Develop, assess, and improve courses. Enhance teaching and learning methods. Contribute to curricular improvements. Participate in service to the department and school. Continue professional development in the discipline. Required qualifications: Graduate work in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Information Security, Electrical Engineering, or related discipline. A doctorate is preferred, but masters degrees may be considered for candidates with strong professional and teaching records. Excellence in written and oral communication. A passion for teaching and continual improvement of ones teaching practice. Ability to work with diverse constituencies and staff. In addition, the following are desired: Teaching experience in a university or 4-year college. Experience with curriculum and course development. Experience with instructional innovation and online education. Involvement in relevant professional organizations and communities. Qualified applicants should submit the following materials through Academic Jobs Online at https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/19945. Questions related to the search can be sent to recruiting@cse.wustl.edu. Applications received before December 15, 2021, will be given full consideration. Cover letter Curriculum vitae Teaching statement (and prior teaching evaluations when applicable) Diversity statement Contact information of at least three references About us: Washington Universitys McKelvey School of Engineering is ranked among US News & World Report's top 50 Engineering Schools. The school's Department of Computer Science & Engineering conducts high-impact research and trains future researchers, engineers, and educators in both the fundamental properties of computing systems and how computation can benefit other disciplines. From its origin in 1965 as the Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, the department has paved the way for computer science departments, awarding the first computer science doctorate in the United States. Diversity and Inclusion are core values at Washington University, and the strong candidate will demonstrate the ability to create inclusive classrooms and environments in which a diverse array of students can learn and thrive. An Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer, Washington University seeks an exceptionally qualified and diverse faculty; women, minorities, protected veterans, and candidates with disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply. Electrical & Systems Engineering Tenure-Track Faculty Positions Consistent with its growth strategy, the Electrical and Systems Engineering department at Washington University in St. Louis invites applications for multiple tenure-track faculty positions with an effective start date on or after July 1, 2022. Candidates should have earned a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in electrical engineering, systems engineering, computer engineering or a closely related discipline. Washington University is a highly-selective national research university with a strong tradition of cross-disciplinary endeavors. We seek both junior and senior applicants who will contribute to Washington Universitys growing multi-disciplinary research efforts in the field of information and decision systems, comprising machine learning, data sciences, control, optimization, signal and image processing. Areas of particular interest are science and technologies that will enable the next generation of Cyber-Physical Systems and the Internet-of-Things, Imaging Science and Engineering Brain Sciences. We also seek senior applicants who are interested in serving as the director for the Master of Science in Data Analytics and Statistics (MSDAS) program within the ESE department. Exceptional candidates will be considered in all areas of Electrical and Systems Engineering. Diversity, equity and inclusion are core values at Washington University, and the candidates will need to demonstrate the ability to create inclusive classrooms and environments in which a diverse array of students can learn and thrive. Successful applicants will have a primary appointment in the department of Electrical and Systems Engineering (ese.wustl.edu) with the possibility of joint appointments in other departments. The faculty member will be expected to teach undergraduate and graduate courses in electrical and systems engineering, participate in university service, and establish a thriving externally-funded research program. Faculty positions are open for all levels; appointment at a senior rank (associate and full professor) will be considered for exceptional candidates with a distinguished record of achievement in research and teaching. Applications should include: (1) a curriculum vitae; (2) a research plan for the next five years that should not exceed three pages, and should highlight the problem(s) or set of questions to be investigated, the envisioned approach, a mentoring strategy, and the proposed funding sources; (3) a statement of teaching interests and philosophy; and (4) a list of at least three references to (https://apply.interfolio.com/98209). Priority will be given to completed applications (including submitted reference letters) received before December 15, 2021. However, applications will be accepted at any time and will be considered until the positions are filled. Washington University in St. Louis is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunity and especially encourages applications by those underrepresented in their academic fields. It is the Universitys policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or genetic information. Verification of employment eligibility will be required upon employment. Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering See alsoTenure-Track FacultyPosition in Fluid and Thermal Sciences Department Chair The Department of Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering (EECE) at Washington University in St. Louis invites applications and nominations for the tenured position of Professor and Department Chair. The Department has a unique research portfolio at the intersection of environmental engineering, novel energy solutions, and chemical engineering and processing that has enabled new interdisciplinary areas fundamental to identifying solutions to problems relevant to society. We are committed to providing high-quality education and advancing basic science and translational research with a focus on aerosol science and engineering, synthetic biology and bioproduct engineering, engineered aquatic systems, and multi-scale chemical engineering. Our faculty lead major research centers including the Center for Aerosol Science and Engineering and Center for Solar Energy and Energy Storage and collaborate on interdisciplinary research projects at Washington University in St. Louis. EECE faculty have also developed a network of partners across the globe to work collaboratively on research and educational projects. By our international network of research universities and corporate partners, EECE is helping develop a cohort of future leaders, promoting global awareness and social responsibility. The department has 20 tenure-line faculty and 5 teaching-track faculty members; undergraduate enrollment is 127 students and the graduate enrollment is 174. Research is supported by over $11 million annual awards from agencies such as NSF, NIH, DOE, USDA, EPA, AFOSR, and ONR, and faculty have been recognized by receipt of many prestigious awards including the NSF CAREER Award to most of the junior faculty. Diversity and inclusion are core values at Washington University; candidates should have a demonstrated commitment to creating inclusive environments that embrace differences in gender, race, ethnicity, geography, socioeconomic status, disability, sexual orientation and/or philosophy. Strong candidates will have an earned doctorate and be internationally recognized for research excellence, leadership, and scholarship in an area of energy science, environmental engineering, chemical engineering, or other relevant fields. Additionally, they should have a compelling vision for the future and integration of diverse disciplines, be able to lead and advance a research-oriented department, have a demonstrated dedication to education, and be a key mentor to faculty and staff. Ideal candidates will have developed a thriving independent research program, led multi-investigator projects, participated in the development of novel curricula, and have a record of academic and professional leadership. Excellent organizational, interpersonal, and communication skills are required. Serving as the executive officer of the department, the Department Chair reports directly to the Dean of the McKelvey School of Engineering. The Chair is expected to serve for an initial term of 5 years with the opportunity for reappointment. The Chair is expected to be a role model and provide leadership in all matters of department policy, structure, and function including strategic planning, appointments, promotions, instruction, mentorship, research, and administration and will conduct research, publish in peer-reviewed journals, teach relevant courses, advise students, and participate in University service. The Chair is expected to cultivate a supportive, collegial, and safe environment for faculty, staff, and students to achieve the highest possible level of excellence in research, teaching, and learning. Inquiries, nominations, and applications are invited. Although the search will remain open until the position is filled, review of candidate materials will begin immediately. Candidates should provide, in confidence, a curriculum vitae, and a letter of application that highlights administrative acumen and leadership experience, and the names and contact information of five references. References will not be contacted without prior knowledge and approval of the candidates. Materials should be sent electronically via e-mail to the universitys consultant, Dr. Jonathan Fortescue of Park Square Executive Search, at eece_chair@parksquare.com. Documents that must be mailed may be sent to Jonathan Fortescue, Ph.D., Managing Partner, or Kyle Meingast, Principal, Park Square Executive Search, LLC, 225 Franklin Street, 17th Floor, Boston, MA 02110. Phone: 617-401-2991. Washington University in St. Louis is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Washington University welcomes difference on our campus in the form of gender, race, ethnicity, disability, geography, socioeconomic status, age, politics, religion, philosophy, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and veteran status. All applicants who share this goal are encouraged to apply. Environmental Engineering Lecturer The Department of Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering (EECE)at Washington University in St. Louis invites applications for a full-time, 12-month, non-tenure eligible faculty position at theLecturerrank to begin January 2022. Thelecturerwill teach classes in the areas of environmental and/or chemical engineering. We are particularly interested in candidates with backgrounds in laboratory-based areas of chemical/environmental engineering. Having or being eligible for professional licensure is desirable. With several initiatives in the EECE department, thelecturercan also participate and help in other activities (e.g., ABET, Student Chapters, and International Programs) to support the educational mission. Candidates should hold a BS from an accredited engineering program as well as an MS in environmental engineering, chemical engineering, or a related engineering discipline. Preferred candidates will have earned a PhD in environmental engineering, chemical engineering, or a related engineering discipline. Candidates with other degrees would be considered if they have prior teaching experience. Experience in laboratory teaching and course development is desired. Related industrial experience will also be considered. Salary will be commensurate with experience and qualifications, and the position is benefits eligible as per university guidelines. Applicants should submit a cover letter outlining their experience and interest, a curriculum vitae, a statement of teaching philosophy, and names and contact information of two references to the application portal on Interfolio. Applications will be considered until the position is filled, but priority will be given to those received by August 13, 2021. If you have any questions, please contact Janie Brennan (Chair of the Search) at jbrennan@wustl.eduor the Interim Department Chair, Katharine Flores atfloresk@wustl.edu. Washington University is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action. It is the Universitys policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, veteran status, disability, or genetic information. Employment eligibility verification will be required upon employment. Open Faculty Position in Aerosol Science and Engineering The McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis invites applications and nominations for tenure-track faculty position(s) in the Department of Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering (www.eece.wustl.edu). Joint appointments with other departments (e.g. Earth and Planetary Sciences) may be possible for suitably qualified candidates. The faculty search is open to all areas of aerosol science and engineering, with a preferred emphasis on identifying individuals with expertise in two distinct areas: (A) atmospheric aerosol processes. Special consideration will be given to research involving a transdisciplinary approach e.g. in studies of atmosphere-biosphere interactions; and (B) gas-phase synthesis of functional materials and/or characterization for application e.g. in chemical catalysis or photonics and optoelectronics. Special consideration will be given to research involving metastable phases including application-oriented characterization. The search is focused on scholars holding (or soon to hold) a PhD in environmental engineering, chemical engineering, materials science, environmental/atmospheric science, or a related discipline. Applicants with an interest and expertise in translating fundamental advances into practice through innovation and entrepreneurship are also encouraged to apply. Candidates are encouraged to express how they may interact across the departments strengths in aerosol science and technology, the chemistry of aquatic systems, systems biology, microbiome sciences, nanomaterials synthesis, and energy research, as well as university-wide initiatives on energy and the environment that include the Center for Aerosol Science and Engineering, the International Center for Energy, Environment and Sustainability, and the Institute of Materials Science and Engineering. Applicants should submit a cover letter articulating their interest in this opportunity, their curriculum vitae, a statement of research plans, a statement of teaching interests and philosophy, and the names and contact information for three references to https://apply.interfolio.com/96041. The combined length of the research and teaching statements should not exceed five pages. Questions regarding the process should be directed to the search committee chair Dr. Rajan Chakrabarty (chakrabarty@wustl.edu). Applications will be considered on a rolling basis until the position is filled, but priority will be given to those received by December 1, 2021. Washington University in St. Louis is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunity. It is the Universitys policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or genetic information. Mechanical Engineering & Material Science See alsoOpen Faculty Position in Aerosol Science and Engineering Tenure-Track FacultyPosition in Fluid and Thermal Sciences The Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science at Washington University in St. Louis invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in Fluid and Thermal Sciences, with emphasis on identifying individuals with expertise in the application of computation and data science to research in these areas. Successful applicants must have an established record of excellence in research, and be qualified to teach core mechanical engineering courses at both the undergraduate and graduate level. The successful applicant will be expected to establish a vigorous, externally-funded research program, publish in peer-reviewed journals, mentor graduate students, teach at the undergraduate and graduate levels, and participate in department and University service. We seek candidates whose research, teaching, and/or service has prepared them to contribute to our core values of diversity, equity, and inclusion. The current search is focused primarily at the Assistant Professor level, but appointment at more senior levels will be considered for distinguished candidates. Computational and data-driven approaches in engineering research have been identified as key areas of interest within the McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University. The School is experiencing tremendous growth with the recent opening of Jubel Hall (Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science) and McKelvey Hall (Computer Science and Engineering) and a projected 20% increase in faculty numbers over the next five years. The successful candidate is expected to leverage existing strengths at Washington University and contribute to multi-disciplinary research efforts. The McKelvey School of Engineering provides a wide range of networking, mentoring, and development opportunities for all faculty. Washington University is a private university with 7,000 undergraduate and 7,000 graduate students. It is nationally known for the exceptional quality of its student body and accessible campus bordering one of the nations largest urban parks. St. Louis is consistently rated a Forbes most affordable city with vibrant biotechnology, music, food, art, and sports scenes. Washington University provides comprehensive and competitive benefits for all faculty and their families. Applicants should apply at http://apply.interfolio.com/96134. Application materials should include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a statement of research plans (not to exceed 3 pages), a statement of teaching interests and philosophy (not to exceed 1 page), and three letters of reference. Evaluation of the applications will begin by December 1, 2021. Washington University is an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer and is particularly interested in considering applications from members of groups underrepresented in science and engineering. Institute of Materials Science and Engineering See alsoOpen Faculty Position in Aerosol Science and Engineeringand Tenure-Track FacultyPosition in Fluid and Thermal Sciences Professor of the Practice in Cleanroom Facility The Institute of Materials Science & Engineering (IMSE) at Washington University in St. Louis invites applications for a Professor of the Practice to support the micro- and nanofabrication cleanroom user facility. Major responsibilities include (1) teaching two 3-unit courses open to both graduate and undergraduate students during the academic year, on topics related to micro- and nano-device fabrication and characterization; (2) teaching a workshop or short course during the summer; and (3) managing the cleanroom facility which includes training users, supervising technical staff, overseeing routine maintenance and upkeep of adiverse set of instrumentation, coordinating equipment installation, and maintaining high standards of safety. Additional activities include coordinating with faculty and research administrators on the use of existing equipment and acquisition of new instruments; providing up-to-date information on the facility website with detailed status of equipment, capabilities, recipes, and performance metrics; expanding the user base through outreach to local universities and companies; and organizing the annual IMSE Open House with other IMSE staff. Interaction with students, faculty, university leadership, and the external academic and industrial user base will be an important element of this position, and strong speaking and written communication skills are essential. Washington University is particularly interested in considering applications from members of groups underrepresented in science and engineering, including women, minorities, protected veterans, and persons with disabilities. The IMSE cleanroom is a central resource for micro- and nano-fabrication research in the greater St. Louis metropolitan area. It houses state-of-the-art equipment for thin-film deposition and growth, optical and electron beam patterning, plasma etching, and metrology tools. The facility attracts users from across the university including the McKelvey School of Engineering, the School of Arts & Sciences, and the School of Medicine, as well as local and regional universities and corporations. The cleanroom has both a research mission serving 50 faculty labs across the university, and an education mission to train the next generation of scientists and engineers in practical fabrication techniques for use in academic and industrial research settings. The position requires a PhD in Physics, Chemistry, Materials Science and/or Engineering, or a relevant Engineering degree, and a minimum of 7 years experience working in an industrial or research/academic cleanroom. Academic, personnel, and/or facilities management experience will be particularly valued. Applicants should apply athttps://apply.interfolio.com/96067and submit a cover letter, CV/resume, one page description of prior cleanroom work experience, one page description of prior teaching experience (if applicable), and the contact information for three references. Washington University in St. Louis is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunityand especially encourages applications by those underrepresented in their academic fields. It is the Universitys policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or genetic information. WashU Human Resources Job listings atjobs.wustl.edu WashU HR athr.wustl.edu An Equal Opportunity Affirmative-Action Employer Washington University encourages and gives full consideration to all applicants for admission, financial aid, and employment. The University does not discriminate in access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, veteran status, disability or genetic information. Inquiries about compliance should be addressed to: Universitys Vice Chancellor for Human ResourcesWashington UniversityCampus Box 1184One Brookings DriveSt. Louis, MO 63130. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering MSC: 1100-122-303 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2021 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
