Gunduz Caginalp | Department of Mathematics | University of Pittsburgh Skip to main content University of Pittsburgh Pitt Home Dietrich School Find People Search Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation AboutOverview Welcome from the Chair Donate Michalik Distinguished Lecture Series Open Faculty Positions UndergraduateOverview Advising & Support Courses Calculus Curriculum Degree Programs/Requirements Extracurricular Activities Math Placement Assessment Math Assistance Center/Posvar Computing Lab Research/Career Opportunities GraduateOverview Admissions & Financial Aid Courses Degree Programs Graduate Employment Graduate Handbook Organizations Research Opportunities ResearchOverview Research Areas Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Mathematics Research Center Technical Reports Publications Gallery of Research Images PeopleFaculty Admin Committees Staff Faculty Adjunct Faculty Part-Time Faculty Emeritus Faculty Post-Doctoral Associates Graduate Students Visitors AlumniStay in Touch NewsNewsletter Archive EventsUpcoming Events Colloquium Past Events Calendar FAQ Prospective Students Gunduz Caginalp Professor, PhD Prof. Caginalp joined the Mathematics Department in 1984. He completed his PhD in Applied Mathematics with Prof. Michael Fisher in 1978. He worked as a Research Associate with Prof. James Glimm at the Rockefeller University, and was the first recipient of the Zeev Nehari position at Carnegie-Mellon University in 1980. His work has been featured in Science, The New York Times, SIAM, Wilmott and other newspapers and magazines Prof. Caginalp's PhD thesis established the existence and properties of the thermodynamic limit for the surface free energy in lattice systems, consisting of three papers in the Comm. Math Physics. In Pittsburgh, he developed the phase field approach to interface problems, publishing a paper in the Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis, that is among the most cited paper in this prestigious journal during the subsequent quarter century. He has published about 50 papers on this topic in mathematics, physics and materials journals. During the past twenty years, Prof. Caginalp has been a pioneer in Quantitative Behavioral Finance, using both differential equations as well as statistical methods. In addition, he developed an interest in experimental economics, publishing nine papers with 2002 Nobel Laureate Vernon Smith and David Porter. The theory and experiments established price momentum and liquidity (or excess cash) as key factors in resolving the paradox of bubbles. His economics/finance papers onwww.ssrn.comhave been downloaded over 12,000 times. Education & Training Cornell University, AB, MS, PhD Research Area Applied Analysis Mathematical Finance Research Interests Various aspect of the phase field equations such as anisotropy continue to be investigated together with Prof. Xinfu Chen. Another area of research is the application of renormalization ideas to differential equations. In economics/finance, Prof. Caginalp and collaborators are investigating the dynamics and stability through the asset flow approach he developed in the early 1990's. Another facet of research involves statistical analysis of large scale financial data, with the aim of uncovering trader motivation beyond value considerations. Contact 507 Thackeray Hall 412-624-8339 My Website Open Faculty Position Mathematics Research Center University of Pittsburgh Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences 301 Thackeray Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Phone: 412-624-8375 Fax: 412-624-8397 Graduate Office- Jat205@pitt.edu Newsletter Sign up to receiveBy the Numb3rs,the Department of Mathematics e-newsletter. View past issues Revised 12/05/21Copyright 2021Office of University CommunicationsSend feedback about this site.
