William J. Layton | Department of Mathematics | University of Pittsburgh Skip to main content University of Pittsburgh Pitt Home Dietrich School Find People Search Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation AboutOverview Welcome from the Chair Donate Michalik Distinguished Lecture Series Open Faculty Positions UndergraduateOverview Advising & Support Courses Calculus Curriculum Degree Programs/Requirements Extracurricular Activities Math Placement Assessment Math Assistance Center/Posvar Computing Lab Research/Career Opportunities GraduateOverview Admissions & Financial Aid Courses Degree Programs Graduate Employment Graduate Handbook Organizations Research Opportunities ResearchOverview Research Areas Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Mathematics Research Center Technical Reports Publications Gallery of Research Images PeopleFaculty Admin Committees Staff Faculty Adjunct Faculty Part-Time Faculty Emeritus Faculty Post-Doctoral Associates Graduate Students Visitors AlumniStay in Touch NewsNewsletter Archive EventsUpcoming Events Colloquium Past Events Calendar FAQ Prospective Students William J. Layton Professor, PhD Dr. Layton has published more than 160 refereed papers and 3 research books. He has advised numerous MS students and undergraduate student researchers and directed 31 PhD students of high accomplishment. Many of his PhD students have won awards for their high quality thesis research, have gone on to tenure track positions at research universities and are now producing their own excellent PhD students. Office Hours: Fall Term 2019 Monday, Wednesday 12:30 PM - 1:30 PM or by appointment Education & Training PhD, University of Tennessee Research Area Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing Research Interests Dr. Layton's research involves novel algorithms, models and analysis aiming to understand fluid motion. For example, one central challenge is in modeling the large eddies (such as storm fronts, hurricanes and tornadoes in the atmosphere) in turbulent flow, predicting their motion in computational experiments and validating mathematically the large eddy models and algorithms developed. Other current challenges in his research are to develop new mathematical tools (algorithms with theory) for studying flow and contaminant transport between surface and ground water and in coupling atmosphere models and ocean models in climate studies. Contact 603 Thackeray 412-624-8312 My Website Open Faculty Position Mathematics Research Center University of Pittsburgh Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences 301 Thackeray Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Phone: 412-624-8375 Fax: 412-624-8397 Graduate Office- Jat205@pitt.edu Newsletter Sign up to receiveBy the Numb3rs,the Department of Mathematics e-newsletter. View past issues Revised 12/05/21Copyright 2021Office of University CommunicationsSend feedback about this site.
