Open Faculty Positions | Department of Mathematics | University of Pittsburgh Skip to main content University of Pittsburgh Pitt Home Dietrich School Find People Search Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation AboutOverview Welcome from the Chair Donate Michalik Distinguished Lecture Series Open Faculty Positions UndergraduateOverview Advising & Support Courses Calculus Curriculum Degree Programs/Requirements Extracurricular Activities Math Placement Assessment Math Assistance Center/Posvar Computing Lab Research/Career Opportunities GraduateOverview Admissions & Financial Aid Courses Degree Programs Graduate Employment Graduate Handbook Organizations Research Opportunities ResearchOverview Research Areas Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Mathematics Research Center Technical Reports Publications Gallery of Research Images PeopleFaculty Admin Committees Staff Faculty Adjunct Faculty Part-Time Faculty Emeritus Faculty Post-Doctoral Associates Graduate Students Visitors AlumniStay in Touch NewsNewsletter Archive EventsUpcoming Events Colloquium Past Events Calendar FAQ Prospective Students Open Faculty Positions Tenure track Assistant Professor in Mathematical Biology The Department of Mathematics at the University of Pittsburgh invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position at the Assistant Professor level in the area of Mathematical Biology to begin in the fall term of 2022. We seek outstanding candidates with expertise in developing and applying mathematical methods to address biological questions, who will complement and enhance our existing strength in this area.Review of applications will begin on November 15, 2021, and will continue until the position is filled. Required qualifications: PhD in Mathematicsor another quantitative field Substantial research accomplishment Evidence of dedication to, and experience in, teaching Application instructions: Applicants can apply online at:https://www.join.pitt.edu/(under Faculty Positions, Keyword search for Mathematical Biology or Mathematics). Candidates should submit (a) a cover letter, (b) a CV, (c) a statement of research accomplishments and future plans, (d) a brief description of teaching experience and interests, and (e) a brief description of how your research, teaching or service demonstrates a commitment to diversity and inclusion Applicants should also have (f) at least three letters of reference emailed to math@pitt.edu by November 15, 2021 Any questions about the application process can be directed to Dana Freund atdaf125@pitt.edu. The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences is committed to building and fostering a culturally diverse environment, so the ability to work effectively with a wide range of individuals and constituencies in support of a diverse community is essential. The University of Pittsburgh is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and values equality of opportunity, human dignity, and diversity. EOE, including disability/vets. Post Doctoral Fellow Mathematical Biology TheDepartment of Mathematics at the University of Pittsburgh(Oakland campus) invites applications for a two-year postdoctoral fellow in Mathematical Biology, to begin in the Fall Term 2022, pending budgetary approval. Candidates may be expected to participate in discussions with experimentalists and analysis of data as part of their research. Responsibilities include maintaining an active research program, teaching three courses per year, and participating in research seminars. Required Qualifications: Completion of a Ph.D. degree in mathematics or a closely related field is required prior to the start of appointment. Applicants should have some form of experience teaching in mathematics. Application Instructions: A complete application consists of: Curriculum vitae including courses taught and list of programming skills, Statement of research interests, At least two letters of recommendation, and A cover letter for the application briefly commenting on fit for the position and evidence of commitment to diversity and inclusion. Review of completed applications will begin on December 13, 2021 and will continue until the position is filled.Applicants should apply online at:https://www.join.pitt.edu/or atthe link here. Any questions about the application process can be directed to Dana Freund atdaf125@pitt.edu. The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences is committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive environment.The University of Pittsburgh is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and values equality of opportunity, human dignity and diversity. EOE, including disability/vets. Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing TheDepartment of Mathematics at the University of Pittsburgh(Oakland campus) invites applications for a two-year postdoctoral fellow in Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing, to begin in the Fall Term 2022, pending budgetary approval. Responsibilities include maintaining an active research program, teaching three courses per year, and participating in research seminars. Required Qualifications: Completion of a Ph.D. degree in mathematics or a closely related field is required prior to the start of appointment. Applicants should have some form of experience teaching in mathematics. Application Instructions: A complete application consists of: Curriculum vitae including courses taught and list of programming skills, Statement of research interests, At least two letters of recommendation, and A cover letter for the application briefly commenting on fit for the position and evidence of commitment to diversity and inclusion. Review of completed applications will begin on December 13, 2021 and will continue until the position is filled.Applicants should apply online at:https://www.join.pitt.edu/, or at the link here. Any questions about the application process can be directed to Dana Freund atdaf125@pitt.edu. The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences is committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive environment.The University of Pittsburgh is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and values equality of opportunity, human dignity and diversity. EOE, including disability/vets. Part-time Instructor The Department of Mathematics at the University of Pittsburgh (Oakland campus) invites applications for the part-time position of Instructor. This position is for a term of one semester, with the possibility of renewal. Responsibilities include teaching one or two courses per semester. Screening will be on a rolling basis. Required Qualifications Completion of a bachelors degree in mathematics or a closely related field is required prior to the start of appointment. Applicants should be qualified to teach the following undergraduate courses in mathematics: College Algebra, Precalculus and Business Calculus Application Instructions Applicants must apply by email to mathptf@pitt.edu A complete application consists of: (1) curriculum vitae, (2) teaching statement, including a history of courses taught, and (3) one or more letters of reference which address teaching ability. Applicants are encouraged to submit any additional material which they believe sheds light on their teaching experience and ability as well as copies of teaching evaluations. Contact: Carol Miller 139 University Place, Room 304 Pittsburgh, PA 15206 cmiller2@pitt.edu About Overview Welcome from the Chair Donate Michalik Distinguished Lecture Series Open Faculty Positions Mathematics Research Center (MRC) The MRC research activities encompass a broad range of areas, including algebra, combinatorics, geometry, topology, analysis, applied analysis, mathematical biology, mathematical finance, numerical analysis, and scientific computing. Ongoing activities include semester themes, distinguished lecture series, workshops, mini-conferences, research seminars, a visitor program, and a postdoctoral program. Learn more about the MRC Math Users View Protected Pages Open Faculty Position Mathematics Research Center Donate University of Pittsburgh Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences 301 Thackeray Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Phone: 412-624-8375 Fax: 412-624-8397 Graduate Office- Jat205@pitt.edu Newsletter Sign up to receiveBy the Numb3rs,the Department of Mathematics e-newsletter. View past issues Revised 12/05/21Copyright 2021Office of University CommunicationsSend feedback about this site.
