Jonathan Rubin | Department of Mathematics | University of Pittsburgh Skip to main content University of Pittsburgh Pitt Home Dietrich School Find People Search Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation AboutOverview Welcome from the Chair Donate Michalik Distinguished Lecture Series Open Faculty Positions UndergraduateOverview Advising & Support Courses Calculus Curriculum Degree Programs/Requirements Extracurricular Activities Math Placement Assessment Math Assistance Center/Posvar Computing Lab Research/Career Opportunities GraduateOverview Admissions & Financial Aid Courses Degree Programs Graduate Employment Graduate Handbook Organizations Research Opportunities ResearchOverview Research Areas Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Mathematics Research Center Technical Reports Publications Gallery of Research Images PeopleFaculty Admin Committees Staff Faculty Adjunct Faculty Part-Time Faculty Emeritus Faculty Post-Doctoral Associates Graduate Students Visitors AlumniStay in Touch NewsNewsletter Archive EventsUpcoming Events Colloquium Past Events Calendar FAQ Prospective Students Jonathan Rubin Professor and Department Chair, PhD Dr. Rubin majored in Mathematics as an undergraduate at The College of William and Mary and received his Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from Brown University in 1996. He was a Zassenhaus Assistant Professor and then a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Mathematics at The Ohio State University before joining the Pitt Mathematics faculty in 2000. In addition to his Mathematics position, he is a Graduate Faculty member, a Center for Neuroscience at University of Pittsburgh Graduate Training Faculty member, a member of the Center for the Basis of Neural Cognition, an affiliate of the McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine, a member of the SIAM Fellows Class of 2021,and a Visiting Professor in Computational Biology.14 students have completed their PhDs at Pitt under Dr. Rubins supervision or co-supervision.He has also mentored 8 postdoctoral fellows. Education & Training PhD, Brown University (Applied Mathematics) Research Area Applied Analysis Mathematical Biology Research Interests The general topic of my research is spatiotemporal pattern formation in coupled cell networks. The overall goal of this research is to understand how the intrinsic dynamics of network elements interacts with the architecture and properties of coupling to drive network activity. Most of my work is motivated by neuroscience applications, such as understanding transitions between activity patterns in respiratory pacemaker networks or figuring out the mechanism underlying the therapeutic efficacy of deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease. Contact 501 Thackeray Hall 412-624-6157 My Website Open Faculty Position Mathematics Research Center University of Pittsburgh Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences 301 Thackeray Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Phone: 412-624-8375 Fax: 412-624-8397 Graduate Office- Jat205@pitt.edu Newsletter Sign up to receiveBy the Numb3rs,the Department of Mathematics e-newsletter. View past issues Revised 12/05/21Copyright 2021Office of University CommunicationsSend feedback about this site.
