Paul M. Gartside | Department of Mathematics | University of Pittsburgh Skip to main content University of Pittsburgh Pitt Home Dietrich School Find People Search Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation AboutOverview Welcome from the Chair Donate Michalik Distinguished Lecture Series Open Faculty Positions UndergraduateOverview Advising & Support Courses Calculus Curriculum Degree Programs/Requirements Extracurricular Activities Math Placement Assessment Math Assistance Center/Posvar Computing Lab Research/Career Opportunities GraduateOverview Admissions & Financial Aid Courses Degree Programs Graduate Employment Graduate Handbook Organizations Research Opportunities ResearchOverview Research Areas Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Mathematics Research Center Technical Reports Publications Gallery of Research Images PeopleFaculty Admin Committees Staff Faculty Adjunct Faculty Part-Time Faculty Emeritus Faculty Post-Doctoral Associates Graduate Students Visitors AlumniStay in Touch NewsNewsletter Archive EventsUpcoming Events Colloquium Past Events Calendar FAQ Prospective Students Paul M. Gartside Professor, PhD I received my DPhil in Mathematics from the University of Oxford in 1993. Following postdocs in Oxford, the University of Auckland, Moscow State University and NUI-Galway, I took up a Junior Lectureship at Oxford in 1999. I joined Pitt in 2001. My research area is Analytic topology, with a particular interest in `spaces of objects' - function spaces, hyperspaces etc. A frequent theme of my research is that of complexity and computability. Education & Training PhD, University of Oxford Research Area Topology and Differential Geometry Research Interests Analytic topology, particularly function spaces, hyperspaces and the interaction between topology and order. Descriptive set theory. Continua theory. Aspects of geometric topology including knots and links, and foliations. Contact 406 Thackeray 412-624-7761 Open Faculty Position Mathematics Research Center University of Pittsburgh Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics The Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences 301 Thackeray Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Phone: 412-624-8375 Fax: 412-624-8397 Graduate Office- Jat205@pitt.edu Newsletter Sign up to receiveBy the Numb3rs,the Department of Mathematics e-newsletter. View past issues Revised 12/05/21Copyright 2021Office of University CommunicationsSend feedback about this site.
