MIT School of Engineering | Faculty Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Graduate Student Fellowships Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Graduate Student Fellowships Awards Home>>Faculty & Research>>Faculty Faculty Faculty & Research Faculty New Faculty (2021) New Faculty (2020) New Faculty (2019) New Faculty (2018) Faculty Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Openings Research Our faculty dont run from hard problems; they run toward them. Whether a rock star or a rising star, our faculty prefer first names and, most of the time, jeans. The most important thing at MIT is not credentials or citations, but what cool thing youre working on. They come here from every corner of the Earth to teach, to do research, and to bring their knowledge to bear on the worlds greatest problems. The challenges they seek to solve, from cybersecurity to fusion energy to Alzheimers, require more than apps. Breakthroughs dont happen overnight. So, our faculty are in it for the long haul. Quantum computing. Self-healing materials. Nitrogen fixation. Autonomous vehicles. The 378 faculty members in the MIT School of Engineering have won almost every major research and teaching award you can think of, they have a strong tradition of national service, and they are prolific inventors and originators of commercial enterprises. If its a breakthrough in technology and science, our faculty are probably involved. Faculty byDepartment or Institute Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Data, Systems, and Society Institute for Medical Science and Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2021) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link
