Antonella Marini | Yeshiva University Message From Our President Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Friends, I am pleased to present to you this Guide to our plans for the upcoming fall semester and reopening of our campuses. In form and in content, this coming semester will be like no other. We will live differently, work differently and learn differently. But in its very difference rests its enormous power. The mission of Yeshiva University is to enrich the moral, intellectual and spiritual development of each of our students, empowering them with the knowledge and abilities to become people of impact and leaders of tomorrow. Next years studies will be especially instrumental in shaping the course of our students lives. Character is formed and developed in times of deep adversity. This is the kind of teachable moment that Yeshiva University was made for. As such, we have developed an educational plan for next year that features a high-quality student experience and prioritizes personal growth during this Coronavirus era. Our students will be able to work through the difficulties, issues and opportunities posed by our COVID-19 era with our stellar rabbis and faculty, as well as their close friends and peers at Yeshiva. To develop our plans for the fall, we have convened a Scenario Planning Task Force made up of representatives across the major areas of our campus. Their planning has been guided by the latest medical information, government directives, direct input from our rabbis, faculty and students, and best practices from industry and university leaders across the country. I am deeply thankful to our task force members and all who supported them for their tireless work in addressing the myriad details involved in bringing students back to campus and restarting our educational enterprise. In concert with the recommendations from our task force, I am announcing today that our fall semester will reflect a hybrid model. It will allow many students to return in a careful way by incorporating online and virtual learning with on-campus classroom instruction. It also enables students who prefer to not be on campus to have a rich student experience by continuing their studies online and benefitting from a full range of online student services and extracurricular programs. In bringing our students back to campus, safety is our first priority. Many aspects of campus life will change for this coming semester. Gatherings will be limited, larger courses will move completely online. Throughout campus everyone will need to adhere to our medical guidelines, including social distancing, wearing facemasks, and our testing and contact tracing policies. Due to our focus on minimizing risk, our undergraduate students will begin the first few weeks of the fall semester online and move onto the campus after the Jewish holidays. This schedule will limit the amount of back and forth travel for our students by concentrating the on-campus component of the fall semester to one consecutive segment. Throughout our planning, we have used the analogy of a dimmer switch. Reopening our campuses will not be a simple binary, like an on/off light switch, but more like a dimmer in which we have the flexibility to scale backwards and forwards to properly respond as the health situation evolves. It is very possible that some plans could change, depending upon the progression of the virus and/or applicable state and local government guidance. Before our semester begins, we will provide more updates reflecting our most current guidance. Please check our website, yu.edu/fall2020 for regular updates. We understand that even after reading through this guide, you might have many additional questions, so we will be posting an extensive FAQ section online as well. Additionally, we will also be holding community calls for faculty, students, staff and parents over the next couple of months. Planning for the future during this moment has certainly been humbling. This Coronavirus has reminded us time and time again of the lessons from our Jewish tradition that we are not in full control of our circumstances. But our tradition also teaches us that we are in control of our response to our circumstances. Next semester will present significant challenges and changes. There will be some compromises and minor inconveniences--not every issue has a perfect solution. But faith and fortitude, mutual cooperation and resilience are essential life lessons that are accentuated during this period. And if we all commit to respond with graciousness, kindness, and love, we can transform new campus realities into profound life lessons for our future. Deeply rooted in our Jewish values and forward focused in preparing for the careers and competencies of the future, we journey together with you, our Yeshiva University community, through these uncharted waters. Next year will be a formative year in the lives of our students, and together we will rise to the moment so that our students will emerge stronger and better prepared to be leaders of the world of tomorrow. Best Wishes, Ari Berman Don't show again OK Skip to main content Skip to desktop navigation to bypass mobile navigation Home Search Main navigation About Administration President Provost History The Lamm Heritage Visiting Us Vision and Values Academics Graduate Undergraduate Pathways to YU Partnerships with Other Universities Katz School of Science and Health Stern College for Women Summer Session Sy Syms School of Business Yeshiva College Seminary Belz School Of Jewish Music Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Centers & Institutes The Emil A. and Jenny Fish Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Yeshiva University Center for Israel Studies Center for the Jewish Future Center For Jewish Law Jacob E. Safra Institute For Sephardic Studies Makor College Experience Rabbi Arthur Schneier Program For International Affairs Straus Center for Torah & Western Thought Registrar Services Academic Advisement Academic Support Provost Writing Centers Faculty Undergraduate Admissions Application Information Admission Deadlines and Dates Information for Admitted Students Freshman Applicants Associates of Liberal Arts Early Admissions Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Honors Applicants Post Pesach Program YU/Albert Einstein College of Medicine Scholars Program Israel Program Guide to Israel Schools Events Sarachek Tournament Admissions Events Open House YU National Model UN Visit YU Visit YU YU in Your Town Directions / Parking Life in NYC Student Finance Applying to YU: Undergraduate Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Graduate Tuition and Fees MY YU Story Graduate Admissions Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Schools and Programs Pathways Albert Einstein College of Medicine Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education & Administration Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Graduate Program In Advanced Talmudic Studies Katz School of Science and Health Sy Syms School of Business Wurzweiler School of Social Work How to Apply International Students Graduate School Events Contact Us Student Life Student Clubs and Organizations Living at YU Men's Housing Women's Housing Shabbat at YU Mashgichim and Madrichot Ruchaniot Dining Services Life in New York City Athletics Resources and Services Answers @ YU Campuses Health and Wellness Office of Disability Services Shevet Glaubach Center for Career Strategy and Professional Development International Students Counseling Center Counseling Center Staff Standards and Policies Orientation Jewish Living & Learning RIETS Center for the Jewish Future Sephardic Programs YU in Israel Counterpoint Israel Israel Alumni Israel Hi-Tech Tours Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Support YU Where to Give Emergency Scholarship Campaign Find Your Cause Support a School or Program Ways to Give Cash or Check Planned Gifts and Estates Corporate Matching Gifts Other Types of Gifts Gift FAQs Donor Community and Impact Benefactors Canadian Friends of Yeshiva University Donor Community Donor Stories Donor Impact President's Society YU's Contributions to the World Utility menu Alumni University News Libraries Museum Offices & Services Faculty Resources Student Toolkit Campus Maps Inside Track Skip to main navigation to bypass utlility navigation Utility menu Alumni University News Libraries Museum Offices & Services Faculty Resources Student Toolkit Campus Maps Inside Track Yeshiva University a place to Search Main navigation About Administration President Provost History The Lamm Heritage Visiting Us Vision and Values Academics Graduate Undergraduate Pathways to YU Partnerships with Other Universities Katz School of Science and Health Stern College for Women Summer Session Sy Syms School of Business Yeshiva College Seminary Belz School Of Jewish Music Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Centers & Institutes The Emil A. and Jenny Fish Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Yeshiva University Center for Israel Studies Center for the Jewish Future Center For Jewish Law Jacob E. Safra Institute For Sephardic Studies Makor College Experience Rabbi Arthur Schneier Program For International Affairs Straus Center for Torah & Western Thought Registrar Services Academic Advisement Academic Support Provost Writing Centers Faculty Undergraduate Admissions Application Information Admission Deadlines and Dates Information for Admitted Students Freshman Applicants Associates of Liberal Arts Early Admissions Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Honors Applicants Post Pesach Program YU/Albert Einstein College of Medicine Scholars Program Israel Program Guide to Israel Schools Events Sarachek Tournament Admissions Events Open House YU National Model UN Visit YU Visit YU YU in Your Town Directions / Parking Life in NYC Student Finance Applying to YU: Undergraduate Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Graduate Tuition and Fees MY YU Story Graduate Admissions Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Schools and Programs Pathways Albert Einstein College of Medicine Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education & Administration Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Graduate Program In Advanced Talmudic Studies Katz School of Science and Health Sy Syms School of Business Wurzweiler School of Social Work How to Apply International Students Graduate School Events Contact Us Student Life Student Clubs and Organizations Living at YU Men's Housing Women's Housing Shabbat at YU Mashgichim and Madrichot Ruchaniot Dining Services Life in New York City Athletics Resources and Services Answers @ YU Campuses Health and Wellness Office of Disability Services Shevet Glaubach Center for Career Strategy and Professional Development International Students Counseling Center Counseling Center Staff Standards and Policies Orientation Jewish Living & Learning RIETS Center for the Jewish Future Sephardic Programs YU in Israel Counterpoint Israel Israel Alumni Israel Hi-Tech Tours Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Support YU Where to Give Emergency Scholarship Campaign Find Your Cause Support a School or Program Ways to Give Cash or Check Planned Gifts and Estates Corporate Matching Gifts Other Types of Gifts Gift FAQs Donor Community and Impact Benefactors Canadian Friends of Yeshiva University Donor Community Donor Stories Donor Impact President's Society YU's Contributions to the World Faculty Directory Antonella Marini Professor, Department of Mathematics at Yeshiva College Education: PhD in Mathematics, University of Chicago MS in Mathematics, University of Chicago Laurea in Matematica, University of Rome 1 "La Sapienza" Biography: Antonella Marini was born in Italy. She did her graduate studies in Mathematics at the University of Chicago, specializing in boundary value problems in gauge theories. She has worked at the Courant Institute of NYU as a Postdoctoral Fellow, at the University of Utah as a full time Instructor, at the University of L'Aquila as a tenured Researcher and as a tenured Associate Professor. Teaching and Research Interests: Her research involves the areas of Geometric Analysis, Partial Differential Equations and Mathematical Physics. More specifically, it focuses on nonlinear partial differential equations and boundary value problems arising in gauge theories, such as Yang-Mills and Yang-Mills-Higgs theory, bosonic field theories and nonlinear Hodge and Hodge-Frobenius Theory. Other research interests include the Calculus of Variations, harmonic maps, Ginzburg Landau vortices, quantum field theories (related to her work on gauge theories); elliptic--hyperbolic equations and applications (related to her work on the Hodge-Frobenius equations). Her teaching interests include Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations with applications to modeling in environmental and biological sciences, Calculus and Advanced Calculus, Topology, Linear Algebra, Abstract Algebra, Real and Complex Variables, Functional Analysis, Geometric Analysis, Morse Theory, Differential Geometry and Lie Groups. Honors and Awards: Instructorship Award at the University of Utah. Publications: Selected publications on Boundary Value problems in Gauge Theories, Quantum Mechanics and Field Theory: [M], Moncrief V., Maitra R., A Euclidean signature semi-classical program. Commun. Analysis and Geometry, to appear. https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.02380 Moncrief V., [M], Maitra R., Orbit space curvature as a source of mass in quantum gauge theory. Ann. Math. Sci. Appl., 4 (2019), no. 2, 313-366. 81T13 (81S10) [M], Maitra R., Moncrief V., Euclidean signature semi-classical methods for bosonic field theories: interacting scalar fields. Ann. Math. Sci. Appl. 1 (2016), no. 1, 355. 81Q20 (35J10) Moncrief V., [M], Maitra R., Modified semi-classical methods for nonlinear quantum oscillations problems. J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012), no. 10, 103516, 51 pp. 81Q20 Isobe T., [M], Small coupling limit and multiple solutions to the Dirichlet problem for Yang-Mills connections in four dimensions. II. J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012), no. 6, 063707, 39 pp. 53C07 (81T13) Isobe T., [M], Small coupling limit and multiple solutions to the Dirichlet problem for Yang-Mills connections in four dimensions. I. J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012), no. 6, 063706, 39 pp. 53C07 (81T13) [M], A boundary value problem for monopoles over a 3-dimensional disk. Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys. 1 (2004), no. 4, 405422. 58E15 (53C07 58E50) [M], Sadun L., Spherically symmetric solutions of a boundary value problem for monopoles. J. Math. Phys. 44 (2003), no. 3, 10711083. 58E15 (53C07 81T13) [M], Regularity theory for the generalized Neumann problem for Yang-Mills connectionsnon-trivial examples in dimensions 3 and 4. Math. Ann. 317 (2000), no. 1, 173193. 58E15 (53C07) [M], The generalized Neumann problem for Yang-Mills connections. Comm. Partial Differential Equations 24 (1999), no. 3-4, 665681. 58E15 (35Q99 53C07) [M], A topological method for finding non-absolute minima for the Yang-Mills functional with Dirichlet data. Geometry, topology and physics (Campinas, 1996), 191199, de Gruyter, Berlin, 1997. 58E15 (58E20) Isobe T., [M], On topologically distinct solutions of the Dirichlet problem for Yang-Mills connections. Calc. Var. Partial Differential Equations 5 (1997), no. 4, 345358. 58E15 (53C07) [M], Elliptic boundary value problems for connections: a non-linear Hodge theory. Workshop on the Geometry and Topology of Gauge Fields (Campinas, 1991). Mat. Contemp. 2 (1992), 195205. 58G20 (53C07) [M], Dirichlet and Neumann boundary value problems for Yang-Mills connections. Comm. Pure Appl. Math. 45 (1992), no. 8, 10151050. 58E15 (35Q99) [M], Boundary value problems for Yang-Mills connections. C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Sr. I Math. 312 (1991), no. 7, 503508. 58E15 (53C07 58G20) Selected publications on Nonlinear Hodge and Hodge-Frobenius Theories, and classical Partial Differential Equations: [M], Otway T. H., Strong solutions to a class of boundary value problems on a mixed Riemannian-Lorentzian metric. Discrete Contin. Dyn. Syst. 2015, Dynamical systems, differential equations and applications. 10th AIMS Conference. Suppl., 801808. 35M32 (35D35 35F50 35J93 58J32) [M], Otway T. H., Duality methods for a class of quasilinear systems. Ann. Inst. H. Poincar Anal. Non Linaire 31 (2014), no. 2, 339348. 58A14 (35J47 35J62 35R01) [M], Otway T. H., Constructing completely integrable fields by a generalized-streamlines method. Commun. Inf. Syst. 13 (2013), no. 3, 327355. 35Q35 (76H05) [M], Otway T. H.,Hodge-Frobenius equations and the Hodge-Bcklund transformation. Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinburgh Sect. A 140 (2010), no. 4, 787819. 58A14 (35Q35 58E30 76A02) Bauman P., [M], Nesi V., Univalent solutions of an elliptic system of partial differential equations arising in homogenization, Indiana Univ. Math. J. 50 (2001), no. 2, 747757. 35J45 (31A05 35B27) Email: marini@yu.edu Office Phone: (212) 960-5400 ext 6856 Office Address: Wilf campus - Belfer Hall Room#536 2495 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10033 MEDIA RELATIONS To request an interview, please contact Media Relations at 212-960-5400 x5488 or publicaffairs@yu.edu Recent courses: Fall 2019 Advanced Calculus I Differential Equations Linear Algebra Mathematical Modeling (graduate course) Spring 2020 Partial Differential Equations (graduate course) Algebra (graduate course) Graduate Apply Undergrad Apply Plan a Visit Request Info Contact Us Support YU YU Home Emergency Info Feedback University News Faculty News About Administration & History Contact & Campuses Directory Career Opportunities Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Graduate Programs Libraries Faculty Admissions Colleges & Schools Israel Program International Students Student Finance Jewish Living & Learning RIETS Center for the Jewish Future Sephardic Programs Torah Studies YU for You Student Faculty Alumni Facebook YouTube Twitter Blogs Instagram Yeshiva University 500 West 185th Street, New York, NY 10033 212.960.5400 Footer Navigation Accessibility Statement Privacy Policy Editor Login Terms of Use Non-Discrimination Statement
