MIT School of Engineering | Faculty Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Graduate Student Fellowships Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Graduate Student Fellowships Awards Home>>Faculty Faculty Jack Hare Jack Hare joined the Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering as an assistant professor in January.He received his BA (2010) and his MSci (2011) in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge, his MA in Plasma Physics from Princeton University in 2013, and his PhD in Plasma Physics from Imperial College, London in 2017. After hisPhD, he held postdoctoral appointments at Imperial College London, where he has researched magnetized turbulence in high-energy-density plasmas, and at ... Dylan Hadfield-Menell Dylan Hadfield-Menell will join the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an Assistant Professor in July. Hadfield-Menell received his PhD in Computer Science from UC-Berkeley, and his MS and BS (both in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering) from MIT. His research focuses on the value alignment problem in artificial intelligence, and aims to help create algorithms that pursue the intended goals of their users. He is also interested in work that bridges the gap be ... Marzyeh Ghassemi Marzyeh Ghassemiwill join the Institute for Medical Engineering and Science and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an Assistant Professor in July. She received her PhD in Computer Science from MIT; her MS in Biomedical Engineering from Oxford University; and two BS degrees, in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, from New Mexico State University.Her research focuses on creating and applying machine learning to human health improvement.Ghassemis w ... Rodrigo Freitas Rodrigo Freitas joined the Department of Materials Science and Engineering (DMSE) in January as the AMAX Assistant Professor. He received his BSc and MSc degrees in Physics from the University of Campinas in Brazil, and MSc and PhD degrees in Materials Science and Engineering from the University of California Berkeley, followed by postdoctoral work at Stanford University. During his PhD, he was also a Livermore Graduate Scholar in the Materials Science Division of the Lawrence Livermore Natio ... Navid Azizan Navid Azizan will join the MIT faculty with dual appointments in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society (IDSS) as an assistant professor in September. He is currently a postdoctoral scholar in the Autonomous Systems Laboratory at Stanford University. He received his PhD in Computing and Mathematical Sciences (CMS) from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in 2020, his MSc from the University of Southern California in 2015, and his ... Zachary Cordero Zachary Cordero joined the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics as an assistant professor in July 2020, to pursue research on additive manufacturing of architectured materials for extreme environments, such as those encountered in thermal protection and propulsion systems. He was formerly an assistant professor of Materials Science and NanoEngineering at Rice University where he lead the Additive Lab. He received his B.Sc. in physics and Ph.D. in materials science and e ... Yufeng (Kevin) Chen Yufeng (Kevin) Chen joinedthe Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in January 2020. He received his Ph.D. in engineering science from Harvard University and his B.S. in applied physics from Cornell. He did postdoctoral research at Harvard University, leading to the development of small robots that arehighly agile, multifunctional, and robust.His work has appeared in top journals includingScience Robot ... Vivishek Sudhir Vivishek Sudhir joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering as an assistant professor in July 2020. He received his Ph.D. in Physics from the cole polytechnique fdrale de Lausanne in 2016. As a postdoctoral associate, he led a team of graduate students that first demonstrated quantum-enhanced force measurement using quantum correlations generated in a room-temperature interferometer. He was the first to achieve the measurement of the position of a macroscopic object ... Mengjia Yan Mengjia Yan joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in November 2019. She received a Pd.D. and an M.S. in computer science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a BS in computer science from Zhejiang University in China. Her research interests are in computer architecture, focusing on hardware support for security. Among other honors, she was a selected participant for Rising Stars in EECS at MIT and for ... Kate E. Galloway Kate E. Galloway joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in 2019. She received her B.S. in Chemical Engineering from UC Berkeley in 2005, and received her M.S. in Chemical Engineering in 2007, and Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering with a Minor in Biology in 2012, each from the California Institute of Technology. She won the NIH Ruth Kirchstein Postdoctoral Research Fellowship and completed her postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Southern C ... Posts navigation Prev 1 2 3 4 10 Next MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2021) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link
