Qian Cai Rutgers HomeSchool of Arts and SciencesSearch RutgersDivision of Life Sciences Search ... Search ... Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience Rutgers SAS Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Why CBN? Learning Goals Prospective Students About the Major Course Descriptions Course Registration Course Schedule Advising Honors Residency Requirements Forms Repository Approved Electives Research for Credit Summer Undergrad Research Fellowships (SURF) Transfer Credit Awards Careers Related Links Graduate People Faculty Meet the Junior Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Research Faculty Research Neuroscience Cell Biology and Biochemistry Organismal Behavior and Physiology Faculty Publications Faculty Recruitment Research Facilities Lab Sites Research Assistant Recruiting News News Newsletters Events & Seminars Seminar Series Archive Past Seminars Calendar Past Events Support Contact Qian CaiAssociate Professor... This e-mail address is protected from spam bots, you must enable JavaScript in your web browser to view it (848) 445-1633(732) 445-1794B231 Nelson Labshttps://cbn.rutgers.edu/about/40-faculty-listing/360-qian-caiAutophagy-Lysosomal Regulation in Neurodevelopment and NeurodegenerationBiographyCurrent ResearchPublications MoreBiographyM.D., Shanghai Tonji University, School of Medicine, Shanghai, ChinaM.S., Shanghai Jiaotong University, School of Medicine, Shanghai, China,Ph.D., National Institutes of Health (NIH)Shanghai Second Medical University Joint Neuroscience Ph.D. program, Bethesda, MD Postdoctoral training: Dr. Zu-Hang Sheng, advisor, NINDS, NIH, Bethesda, MD Resident in Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Shanghai Municipal Infectious Diseases Hospital, Shanghai, ChinaResident in Infectious Diseases, Shanghai Rui-Jin Hospital, Shanghai, ChinaResearch Fellow, Synaptic Function Section, NINDS, NIH, Bethesda, MDAssistant Professor, Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ Awards and Honors: NIH Fellow Award for Research Excellence (2004) The Outstanding Graduate Student Award, Shanghai, China (2006) Exceptional Performance Award of US Federal Government Employees, NINDS, NIH (2006) NIH Fellow Award for Research Excellence (2007) NIH Fellow Award for Research Excellence (2008) NIH Fellow Award for Research Excellence (2009) NIH Pathway to Independence (PI) Award (K99/R00 award) (2009) Charles & Johanna Busch Biomedical Award (2013) Alzheimers Association NIRG Award (2014) FASEB Science Research Conference Travel Award (2015)Board of Trustees Research Fellowship for Scholarly Excellence (2018) Professional Memberships:American Society for Cell BiologyAmerican Society for NeuroscienceAssociate Faculty Member of Faculty of 1000Research InterestsAutophagy-Lysosomal Regulation in Neurodevelopment and NeurodegenerationResearch GroupNeuroscienceCurrent ResearchAutophagy is a key homeostatic process whereby autophagosomes engulf damaged cytoplasmic components, protein aggregates, and dysfunctional organelles for lysosomal degradation. In neurons, autophagosomes are predominantly formed in distal axons and presynaptic terminals and undergo exclusively retrograde transport toward the soma where mature lysosomes are mainly located. The autophagy-lysosomal pathway is essential for the maintenance of neuronal homeostasis. Defects in this pathway have been implicated in a growing number of neurological disorders. Mitochondria are essential organelles for neuronal function and survival. Dysfunctional mitochondria not only produce energy less efficiently, but also release harmful reactive oxygen species and initiate apoptotic signaling cascades, which have been linked to the pathogenesis of major neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimers, Parkinsons, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, and Huntingtons. Efficient elimination of aged and damaged mitochondria through mitophagy is a key cellular pathway for mitochondrial quality control in neurons. The focus of our research is to elucidate the molecular and cellular mechanisms regulating the autophagy-lysosomal system and their impact on neuronal homeostasis in health and axonal degeneration. We are particularly interested in addressing the following questions: (1) What are the mechanisms regulating axonal transport, membrane trafficking, and autophagy-lysosomal function? (2) How is mitochondrial quality controlled through mitophagy in heathy and diseased neurons? (3) How is the endolysosomal system involved in the regulation of neuronal signaling? (4) How do defects in these mechanisms contribute to neurodegeneration? (5) What are the mechanisms regulating neuronal morphogenesis and synapse formation through the autophagy-lysosomal pathway? Our study provides the evidence of dynamic and spatial Parkin-mediated mitophagy ineliminationof defective mitochondria in live neurons. We reveal that inadequate mitophagy capacity contributes to mitochondrial defects in Alzheimers disease neurons. Our long-term goal is to elucidate the cellular mechanisms for proper turnover of damaged mitochondria and clearance of protein aggregates by enhancing autophagy-lysosomal function. We will evaluate if up-regulation of this system ameliorates neuropathology and attenuates behavioral abnormalities associated with major neurodegenerative diseases. The advance in our understanding of these mechanisms will provide a strong basis that could lead to the development of novel protective and therapeutic approaches. Our research article (Tammineni and Jeong et al., Human Molecular Genetics, 2017) is featured in the cover: (A) LAMP-1-labeled mature lysosomes loaded with active protease Cathepsin D (CathD) are mainly located in the soma, but are barely detected in MAP2-marked neuronal processes. (B) Snapin, a dynein motor adaptor, mediates the recruitment of dynein motors to late endosomes, thereby enabling their long-distance retrograde axonal transport. This process facilitates axonal retrograde trafficking of late endosome-associated retromer toward the soma, where retromer retrieves cation-independent mannose 6 phosphate receptors (CI-MPR) from the late endosome to the Golgi. Golgi-localized CI-MPR mediates trafficking and loading of critical proteases into lysosomes. Such a mechanism is essential for the maintenance of lysosome functional capacity in neurons. Our paper (Feng and Tammineni et al., Journal of Biology Chemistry, 2017) is selected as the representative for the Neurobiology category in The Year in JBC: 2017. The images from the paper are featured as part of the cover: fluorescence data and kymographs exploring the fate of the secretase BACE1, which initiates amyloid-? formation, during autophagy. Induction of Parkin-mediated mitophagy in mature cortical neurons. Upon mitophagy induction, Parkin translocates to depolarized mitochondria and accumulates in the somatodendritic regions of neurons. Arrows in enlarged views of the boxed somatodendritic area indicate Parkin ring-like structures surrounding fragmented mitochondria while an arrowhead marks a mitochondrion unlabeled by Parkin. Panels with enlarged views of a dendritic process showing mitochondria with no Parkin association at distal regions. (Cai et al., Current Biology, 2012) Activation of Parkin-mediated mitophagy in Alzheimers disease neurons. Parkin is recruited to depolarized mitochondria in Alzheimers disease neurons. Graph to the right is a line scan of relative DsRed-Mito and YFP-Parkin fluorescence intensities from an enlarged image in the somatic area of Alzheimers disease neuron (left panel). Mitophagy induction is coupled with altered mitochondrial motility in the axon of Alzheimers disease neurons. Vertical lines of kymograph images (lower panels) represent stationary organelles, oblique lines or curves to the right represent anterograde transport, and lines to the left indicate retrograde movement. (Ye et al., Human Molecular Genetics, 2015) Autophagic stress at presynaptic terminals of neurons in Alzheimers disease mouse brains. Amphisome-like structures, indicated by arrows, accumulate at presynaptic terminals of Alzheimers disease neurons, which are not readily observed in the neurons from normal WT mice. (Tammineni and Ye et al., eLife, 2017) Mechanisms underlying autophagic stress in Alzheimers disease neurons. (A) In healthy neurons, autophagosomes are predominantly generated in distal axons. Through fusion with late endosomes (LEs) to form amphisomes, nascent autophagosomes gain long-distance retrograde motility by recruiting LE-loaded dynein-Snapin motor-adaptor transport machinery. Efficient retrograde transport rapidly moves amphisomes from distal axons to the soma where active lysosomes are relatively enriched. Such a mechanism enables neurons to facilitate cargo degradation within autolysosomes in the soma, thereby decreasing axonal stress. (B) In Alzheimers disease neurons, elevated cytoplasmic amyloid ? (A?) oligomers interact with dynein motors and competitively interfere with dynein-Snapin coupling. Such deficits disrupt recruitment of dynein motors onto Snapin-loaded LEs and/or amphisomes, and reduce their retrograde transport toward the soma for lysosomal clearance. As a result, amphisomes are trapped in distal axons and at presynaptic terminals, augmenting autophagic stress in Alzheimers disease neurons. (Tammineni and Cai, Autophagy, 2017) For CBN's main publication search, click here.Research Opportunities MoreRecruiting New Research Assistants2021-2022Research Website: https://cbn.rutgers.edu/cb-profile/userprofile/qc29Research Summary: Autophagy-lysosomal regulation and mitochondrial quality control in Alzheimer's diseaseHow to Apply: Aresty Summer Science or RA programSemesters Accepting Students: Fall: NoSpring: NoSummer: MaybePreferences: Rising sophomore honors students with GPA 4.0 and interested in graduate school.Powered by Community Builder Connect with Rutgers SAS Events Explore SAS Departments & Degree-Granting Programs Quick Links WM Keck Center for Collaborative NeuroscienceRutgers Stem Cell Research CenterDepartment of GeneticsDepartment of Molecular Biology and BiochemistryRUCDRDivision of Life Sciences Social Media Facebook Contact Us Nelson Biology Labs604 Allison RoadPiscataway, NJ 08854-8082(848) 445-3471 This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.. HomeSite MapSearchSite FeedbackLogin Back to Top Copyright 2021, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers web sites to: accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier or Provide Feedback Form.
