Megerditch Kiledjian Rutgers HomeSchool of Arts and SciencesSearch RutgersDivision of Life Sciences Search ... Search ... Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience Rutgers SAS Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Why CBN? Learning Goals Prospective Students About the Major Course Descriptions Course Registration Course Schedule Advising Honors Residency Requirements Forms Repository Approved Electives Research for Credit Summer Undergrad Research Fellowships (SURF) Transfer Credit Awards Careers Related Links Graduate People Faculty Meet the Junior Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Research Faculty Research Neuroscience Cell Biology and Biochemistry Organismal Behavior and Physiology Faculty Publications Faculty Recruitment Research Facilities Lab Sites Research Assistant Recruiting News News Newsletters Events & Seminars Seminar Series Archive Past Seminars Calendar Past Events Support Contact Megerditch KiledjianDistinguished Professor and Chair... This e-mail address is protected from spam bots, you must enable JavaScript in your web browser to view it (848) 445-3306(732) 445-1794A301/B211 Nelson Labshttps://cbn.rutgers.edu/kiledjian-lab-homeRNA Decay in the regulation of Gene Expression and Genetic DisordersBiographyCurrent ResearchPublications MoreBiographyB.A. Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ.Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA Postdoctoral Training: Gideon Dreyfuss, advisor. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PAPostdoctoral Training: Stephen Liebhaber, advisor. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PAResearch InterestsRNA Decay in the regulation of Gene Expression and Genetic DisordersResearch GroupCell Biology and BiochemistryCurrent ResearchResearch Interests Regulation of mRNA degradation is critical in maintaining normal gene expression and cellular homeostasis.Research in the Kiledjian lab is centered on the regulation of gene expression by the control of mRNA stability with an emphasis on the role of the 5-end cap and its removal (decapping) in modulating mRNA turnover. Identification and characterization of critical components in the decapping pathway have enabled the lab to uncover (1) all known mammalian decapping enzymes (Wang et al,. 2002;Wang and Kiledjian 2001;Liu et al., 2002;Song et al., 2010;Song et al., 2013,Grudzien-Nogalska et al., 2016); (2) novel mRNA quality control mechanisms (Xiang et al., 2009;Jiao et al., 2010;Chang et al., 2012;Jiao et al., 2013); (3) new classes of 5-end RNA caps (Jiao et al., 2017;Mauer et al., 2017); and (4) important links between mRNA decapping and human disorders (Singh et al., 2008;Li et al., 2012;Gogliotti et al., 2013;Ahmedet al., 2015;Castellanos-Rubio et al., 2016). mRNA Decapping The Kiledjian lab has been at the forefront of identifying mammalian decapping enzymes, characterizing their functional significance in the modulation of gene expression, and their physiological significance in cells. These range from identification of Dcp2 as the first mRNA decapping enzyme to Nudt3 as the most recent and their respective roles in the regulation of innate immunity and cell migration. The lab is currently further exploring the functional role of these decapping enzymes as well as additional decapping enzymes in various cellular functions. Scavenger Decapping The lab also identified a distinct decapping protein, DcpS, that functions as a scavenger decapping enzyme in the 3-end decay of RNA. DcpS is implicated in a range of functions including a cellular target for a potential drug candidate in the treatment of Spinal Muscular Atrophy as well as a mediator of human cognitive function where individuals with a disruption of DcpS decapping activity exhibit cognitive impairment. Using induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) generated from individuals with homozygous disruption of theDcpSgene, the lab is currently focused on delineating the molecular mechanism by which DcpS decapping contributes to neural function and human cognition. Novel 5-end cap quality control. The Kiledjian lab recently discovery a novel 5 end capping quality control (CQC) mechanism in eukaryotic cells that degrades mRNAs with an incomplete 5end. The significance of this finding is that it revealed mRNA capping, long thought to be a process that occurred to completion on all RNA polymerase II primary transcripts, is a modulated process. They showed that transcripts lacking a complete 5 end cap can be generated in a regulated manner and further identified a novel class of non-canonical decapping enzymes they termed DXO family of proteins, that clear these aberrant caps. Collectively, these findings establish a new paradigm in post-transcriptional gene expression whereby addition of the 5 cap is a regulated process and a heretofore unknown CQC mechanism exists to ensure the integrity of the cap through the DXO family of proteins. The molecular mechanism of CQC and its physiological consequence in cells are being pursued. 5-end Nicotinamide Adenine Diphosphate (NAD+) cap in mammalian cells. Another significant contribution from the Kiledjian lab is their demonstration that mammalian RNA can possess a 5-end nicotinamide adenine diphosphate (NAD+) cap and appear to possess a novel NAD+capping (NADding) mechanism. Moreover, the fungal and mammalian DXO proteins were shown to be potent deNADding enzymes that remove the NAD+cap to facilitate RNA degradation. Importantly, contrary to the m7G cap that stabilizes mRNAs, the NAD+cap promotes DXO-dependent rapid decay of an mRNA harboring this modification. Therefore, NAD serves as a 5 tag to target an RNA for decay. These findings present a transformative mode of 5 end epitranscriptomic RNA modification and a new modulatory network in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression involving previously unforeseen caps. For CBN's main publication search, click here.Powered by Community Builder Connect with Rutgers SAS Events Explore SAS Departments & Degree-Granting Programs Quick Links WM Keck Center for Collaborative NeuroscienceRutgers Stem Cell Research CenterDepartment of GeneticsDepartment of Molecular Biology and BiochemistryRUCDRDivision of Life Sciences Social Media Facebook Contact Us Nelson Biology Labs604 Allison RoadPiscataway, NJ 08854-8082(848) 445-3471 This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.. HomeSite MapSearchSite FeedbackLogin Back to Top Copyright 2021, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers web sites to: accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier or Provide Feedback Form.
