Hannah Ginsborg Hannah Ginsborg Toggle navigation Department Faculty Courses Advising Biographical information Publications CV Hannah Ginsborg Willis S. and Marion Slusser Professor of Philosophy Equity Advisor Office: 303 Moses Office hours: Tu 3:00-4:30 Zoom: log in with your CalNet ID to see the link Phone: (510) 664-9077 E-mail: ginsborg@berkeley.edu Courses for Fall 2021: First Year Graduate Seminar (Ph.D., Harvard University, 1989). Ginsborg combines work in the history of philosophy, especially Kant, with an interest in contemporary philosophy, in particular the theory of meaning and the philosophy of mind. Much of her published work has focused on Kants Critique of Judgment, arguing for its importance both to Kants own theory of cognitive judgment and to our present-day understanding of cognition. Recently she has been applying what she takes to be the central insight of the Critique of Judgment to a range of contemporary issues, including rule-following skepticism, the normativity of meaning and content, the content of perceptual experience and the notion of function in biology. She has also been working on Kants theory of experience in the Critique of Pure Reason and on contemporary views about the relation between perceptual experience and belief. Other interests include Wittgensteins later philosophy, aesthetics (especially in connection with music), and the philosophy of biology. A collection of her articles on Kants Critique of Judgment has appeared as The Normativity of Nature: Essays on Kants Critique of Judgement (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2015). Recently published articles include Wittgenstein on Going On (2020), Going On As One Ought: Kripke and Wittgenstein on the Normativity of Meaning (2021) and Conceptualism and the Notion of a Concept (2021). (See publications page for details). Ginsborgs current research project seeks to articulate and develop the notion of primitive normativity a notion drawn from her reading of Kants aesthetic theory and to show how it can be used to address problems about rule-following, knowledge of language and grasp of concepts. The notion of primitive normativity is introduced in her 2011 paper, Primitive Normativity and Skepticism About Rules, and reappears in various forms in subsequent work, both on Kants theory of knowledge and on contemporary issues. Home | UC Berkeley | College of Letters & Science | Support philosophy! 2006-2021 Regents of the University of California
