Simon Godsill | Department of Engineering Skip to main content Study at Cambridge About the University Research at Cambridge Quicklinks Colleges and departments Email and phone search For alumni For business For current students For staff Libraries and facilities Museum and collections Search form Search this site Study at Cambridge Study at Cambridge Undergraduate Courses Applying Events and open days Fees and finance Student blogs and videos Graduate Why Cambridge Qualifications directory How to apply Fees and funding Frequently asked questions International students Continuing education Executive and professional education Course in education About the University About the University Giving to Cambridge How the University and Colleges work Jobs Maps News Visiting the University Research at Cambridge Research at Cambrige News Features Discussion Spotlight on... About research at Cambridge Department of Engineering / Profiles / Prof. Simon Godsill Department of Engineering Menu Home About usOverview of the Department History Strategy21st Century Engineers Staff and Student Directory News Department Newsletter Alumni Relations Vacancies How to Find Us Contact Us Keep in touch UndergraduatesUndergraduates Overview & COVID Information Prospective Undergraduates Open Days Information for Staff Current Undergraduates PostgraduatesPostgraduates Overview Postgraduate CoursesTaught courses (MPhil and MRes) Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) Research study Part-time study Coronavirus (COVID-19) Applying for Postgraduate StudyApplying for taught courses and CDTs Applying for research courses Applying for part-time study Entrance RequirementsRequirements for postgraduate students English language requirements International equivalencies Funding opportunities for applicants Current Postgraduate Students Information for staff ResearchResearch Overview Publications Academic DivisionsEnergy, Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Electrical Engineering Mechanics, Materials and Design Civil Engineering Manufacturing and Management Information Engineering Strategic ThemesEnergy, Transport and Urban Infrastructure Manufacturing, Design and Materials Bioengineering Complex, Resilient and Intelligent Systems Research news Research Integrity CollaborationCollaboration Overview Student Placements Short Student Projects Longer Projects and Frameworks Academic Partnerships Consulting and Other Services Giving to the Department Events and outreachEvents and Outreach Overview Events and Seminars Schools and Community OutreachWork Experience at the Department of Engineering ServicesServices Overview Design & Technical Services Information and Computing ServicesPrinting Services Centre for Languages and Inter-Communication Library Intranet Prof. Simon Godsill Profiles sjg30 ProfessorAcademic Division: Information Engineering (Head of Division)Research group: Signal Processing and CommunicationsTelephone: +44 1223 3 32604Email: sjg@eng.cam.ac.ukPersonal websitePublicationsResearch interestsProfessor Godsill's research interests include: Bayesian Computational Methods for Signal Processing - Underpinning much of the above applications work is the Bayesian paradigm and associated algorithms for inference about the parameters and structure of complex systems. In the Bayesian approach data is combined with any prior information available in an optimal fashion using probability distributions. We are particularly concerned with the development of new methods appropriate to the applications above. These applications are often sequential in nature (the data arrive one-by-one and a decision/estimate is required with small or no delay), hence we focus considerable attention on sequential learning methods such as Sequential Monte Carlo (particle filtering). Other problems are batch in nature (the data arrive all at once, or we can wait until all of the data have arrived before processing) - in those cases batch algorithms can be used, and we focus attention on stochastic simulation methods such as Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC), including those for model uncertainty problems (reversible jump MCMC, etc.). Novel techniques are developed to help tailor these methods to the applications at hand. Audio and Music Processing (AMP) - The Signal Processing Laboratory has had long involvement in audio and music processing. Early work in sound restoration here in the 1980's led to the founding of the successful company CEDAR Audio Ltd. which produces DSP equipment for remastering and enhancement of sound in the recording, broadcast and forensic industries. In current research we are concerned with accurate modelling of digital audio and automated inference about the parameters and structure of those models. Research interests include computer music transcription, audio source separation, musical beat-tracking, chord recognition, Digital Audio Restoration, noise reduction, multichannel audio and sparse modelling with overcomplete dictionaries of atoms. Underpinning much of the work is a Bayesian statistical modelling approach to audio problems. Tracking Algorithms - A major challenge in many application areas is that of detection, classification and tracking of multiple objects. Classic applications of this include radar and sonar, but the principles extend into computer vision, robotics and many other areas. We are aiming to push back the boundaries of current technology where we may wish to infer object linkages (group/network objects), intentionalities and other higher level concepts from many heterogeneous data sources. The methods devised use novel implementations of Monte Carlo Bayesian updating (e.g. particle filtering) to carry out joint detection of number, characteristics and position of objects in cluttered environments. Strategic themesBioengineeringResearch in brain connectivity learning from MEG/EEG data. Complex, resilient and intelligent systemsAll of my research projects are relevant to this theme. Research projectsCurrent research projects with EPSRC, Google Chrome, Selex Galileo, JLR. Past projects with EPSRC, EU. Mastercard, Citigroup, QinetiQ, General Dynamics, Olivetti Research. Teaching activity3F3 Signal and Pattern processing IB Paper 6: Signal and Data Analysis Research opportunitiesPost-doctoral positions available, including multi-frequency segmentation of SAR imagery. Other positionsFellow of Corpus Christi College, Director CEDAR Audio Ltd. BiographySimon Godsill is Professor of Statistical Signal Processing in the Engineering Department at Cambridge University. He is also a Professorial Fellow and tutor at Corpus Christi College Cambridge. He coordinates an active research group in Signal Inference and its Applications within the Signal Processing and Communications Laboratory at Cambridge, specializing in Bayesian computational methodology, multiple object tracking, audio and music processing, and financial time series modeling. A particular methodological theme over recent years has been the development of novel techniques for optimal Bayesian filtering and smoothing, using Sequential Monte Carlo or Particle Filtering methods. Prof. Godsill has published extensively in journals, books and international conference proceedings, and has given a number of high profile invited and plenary addresses at conferences such as the Valencia conference on Bayesian Statistics, the IEEE Statistical Signal Processing Workshop and the Conference on Bayesian Inference for Stochasrtic Processes (BISP). He co-authored a seminal Springer text Digital Audio Restoration with Prof. Peter Rayner in 1998. He was technical chair of the successful IEEE NSSPW workshop in 2006 on sequential and nonlinear filtering methods, and has been on the conference panel for numerous other conferences/workshops. Prof. Godsill has served as Associate Editor for IEEE Tr. Signal Processing and the journal Bayesian Analysis. He was Theme Leader in Tracking and Reasoning over Time for the UKs Data and Information Fusion Defence Technology Centre (DIF-DTC) and Principal Investigator on many grants funded by the EU, EPSRC, QinetiQ, General Dynamics, MOD, Microsoft UK, Citibank and Mastercard. In 2009-10 he was co-organiser of an 18 month research program in Sequential Monte Carlo Methods at the SAMSI Institute in North Carolina. He is a Director of CEDAR Audio Ltd. (which has received numerous accolades over the years, including a technical Oscar). Raven login Intranet Contact Engineering Department Trumpington Street CambridgeCB2 1PZ United Kingdom (map) Tel: +44 1223 332600 Fax: +44 1223 332662 Information provided by: web-editor@eng.cam.ac.uk Privacy policy Undergraduate teachingGraduate studyResearchCollaborationGiving to the DepartmentEvents and outreachPeopleAlumni RelationsEngineering DiversityIntranet Connect with us Flickr Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram iTunes U 2018 University of Cambridge University A-Z Contact the University Accessibility Freedom of information Terms and conditions Study at Cambridge Undergraduate Graduate International students Continuing education Executive and professional education Course in education About the University Giving to Cambridge How the University and Colleges work Jobs Maps News Visiting the University Research at Cambridge News Features Discussion Spotlight on... About research at Cambridge
