Lawrence B. Glickman | History Cornell Arts & Sciences arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program History Graduate Field Current Course Listings Course Flyers Job Placement: Hire a Cornell PhD Faculty Office Hours People Department Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Professors Emeriti Current Graduate Students Research Faculty Books About Us Department Contacts and Administration Alumni Profiles Cornell Historical Society Public History Initiative History You are here Home Lawrence B. Glickman Lawrence B. Glickman Stephen and Evalyn Milman Professor in American Studies Mcgraw Hall, Room 307 lbg49@cornell.edu Overview Lawrence Glickman is the Stephen and Evalyn Milman Professor of American Studies in the Department of History. He is the author or editor of five books, including Free Enterprise: An American History (2019) and Buying Power: A History of Consumer Activism in America(2009). He also writes on public affairs for the Washington Post, Boston Review, Dissent, and other periodicals. At Cornell, he teaches a popular course on Sports and Politics in American History and a variety of lecture and seminar courses on political, cultural, and intellectual history and he is a core faculty member in the History of Capitalism Initiative. Departments/Programs History American Studies Program CoursesFall 2021 HIST 2220 : From the New Deal to the Age of Reagan News Related Articles Stop worrying about protecting taxpayers. That isnt the governments job. Become a History Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to History The College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Land Acknowledgment Feedback Facebook Twitter Instagram450 McGraw Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853607-255-8862 2021 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
