Bogdan A. Bernevig | Department of Physics Jump to main content User menuFacebook Linkedin Twitter Search form Search Main menu AboutHistory Code of Conduct Women In Physics Employment Associated Programs Contact EDI Initiative PeopleFaculty Administration Researchers Dicke Fellows Graduate Students AcademicsGraduate ProgramGraduate AdmissionsPre-Doctoral Fellowship Graduate Student Funding FAQs Student Experience Degree RequirementsCore Courses Preliminary Exams Experimental Project Final Steps Fellowships /Travel Grants Graduate Important Dates PhD. ThesesFPO Image Gallery by Year Quick Links 2021 Graduate Student Virtual Open House Undergraduate ProgramProspective Students Choosing Courses Senior Theses Junior Papers Important Dates Summer Research Physics Concentrators ResearchResearch AreasAtomic Physics Biological Physics Condensed Matter Experiment Condensed Matter Theory Cosmology & Gravity Theory Cosmology Experiment & Observation High Energy Experiment High Energy Theory Mathematical Physics Particle & Nuclear Astrophysics Particle Phenomenology Publications Postdoctoral Fellows CentersInstitute for Research and Innovation in Software for High Energy Physics Princeton Center for Complex Materials The Center for the Physics of Biological Function The Princeton Gravity Initiative Princeton Center for Theoretical Physics NewsFeatured Press Release EventsDonald R. Hamilton Colloquium SeriesDonald R. Hamilton: overview Past Hamilton Lecture Speakers Events ArchiveLaTeX Demo Page Physics Pumpkin Toss 2017! Home Bogdan A. Bernevig Main menu: sub-menu items Faculty Administration Researchers Dicke Fellows Graduate Students Bogdan A. Bernevig B. Andrei Bernevig Professor of PhysicsPhone:609-258-1594 Email Address: bernevig@Princeton.EDU Assistant:Tiffany Jackson Office Location:322 Jadwin HallWebsite:www.bernevig.com/Advisee(s): Aaron Chew I am interested in several areas of theoretical condensed matter physics. I currently work on high-temperature superconductivity in the iron-based superconductors. These materials, discovered a year and a half ago, have broken the monopoly of cuprates on high-temperature superconductors. Their pairing symmetry, pairing mechanism, nature of local VS itinerant electrons, and other overwhelming parts of their physics are not known. Along with my collaborators, I have predicted the pairing symmetry in these materials to be a novel-type of s-wave. Along with my post-doc , we have developed a functional renormalization group treatment of the asymmetry of the s-wave gap predicted in the iron-based superconductors. I also actively work in the field of topological phases and Fractional Quantum Hall effect. These phases exhibit new topological excitations, including exotic non-abelian ones which could potentially be used as qubits of a quantum computer protected from local perturbations. I have worked on a series of FQH states which are described by a remarkable series of polynomials known in mathematics as Jack polynomials. I am also interested in the entanglement spectrum of these systems, and in devising methods to indentify topological order directly from the ground-state wavefunction. I am also interested in any possible classification of topological order in gapless systems. I also have other interests in the field of topological insulators, in which I predicted the first material to exhibit the Quantum Spin Hall effect. I am interested in how the interactions and disorder modify the nature of edge states. I am also interested in the physics of systems with spin-orbit coupling (insulators, semiconductors and metals), and in new symmetries and effects (such as persistent spin density helixes) existent in these systems. Publications List:J. D. Koralek, C. P. Weber, J. Orenstein, B. A. Bernevig, Shoucheng Zhang, S. Mack & D. D. Awschalom Emergence of the persistent spin helix in semiconductor quantum wells Nature, 458, 610-613 (2009) B. Andrei Bernevig, Taylor L. Hughes, Shou-Cheng Zhang Quantum Spin Hall Effect and Topological Phase Transition in HgTe Quantum Wells Science, 314, 1757 (2006) B. Andrei Bernevig and F.D.M. Haldane Fractional Quantum Hall Effect and Jack Polynomials Phys. Rev. Lett 100, 246802 (2008) B. A. Bernevig, J. Orenstein, and S.-C. Zhang Exact SU(2) Symmetry and Persistent Spin Helix in a Spin-Orbit Coupled System Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 236601 (2006) B. A. Bernevig and S.-C. Zhang Quantum Spin Hall Effect Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 106802 (2006) Kangjun Seo, B. Andrei Bernevig, Jiangping Hu Pairing Symmetry in a Two-Orbital Exchange Coupling Model of Oxypnictides Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 206404 (2008) B. A. Bernevig, D. Giuliano, and R. B. Laughlin Spinon Attraction in Spin- 1/2 Antiferromagnetic Chains Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 3392-3395 (2001) M. Parish, Jiangping Hu, B. Andrei Bernevig Experimental Consequences of the S-wave Superconductivity in the Iron-Pnictides Phys. Rev. B 78, 144514 (2008) Department of Physics Jadwin Hall, Washington Road Princeton, New Jersey 08544 Secondary menuSafety IT Help Internals Hotlines Physics Department "Comment Box" Facebook Linkedin Twitter Accessibility 2021 The Trustees of Princeton University
