Thomas Gregor | Department of Physics Jump to main content User menuFacebook Linkedin Twitter Search form Search Main menu AboutHistory Code of Conduct Women In Physics Employment Associated Programs Contact EDI Initiative PeopleFaculty Administration Researchers Dicke Fellows Graduate Students AcademicsGraduate ProgramGraduate AdmissionsPre-Doctoral Fellowship Graduate Student Funding FAQs Student Experience Degree RequirementsCore Courses Preliminary Exams Experimental Project Final Steps Fellowships /Travel Grants Graduate Important Dates PhD. ThesesFPO Image Gallery by Year Quick Links 2021 Graduate Student Virtual Open House Undergraduate ProgramProspective Students Choosing Courses Senior Theses Junior Papers Important Dates Summer Research Physics Concentrators ResearchResearch AreasAtomic Physics Biological Physics Condensed Matter Experiment Condensed Matter Theory Cosmology & Gravity Theory Cosmology Experiment & Observation High Energy Experiment High Energy Theory Mathematical Physics Particle & Nuclear Astrophysics Particle Phenomenology Publications Postdoctoral Fellows CentersInstitute for Research and Innovation in Software for High Energy Physics Princeton Center for Complex Materials The Center for the Physics of Biological Function The Princeton Gravity Initiative Princeton Center for Theoretical Physics NewsFeatured Press Release EventsDonald R. Hamilton Colloquium SeriesDonald R. Hamilton: overview Past Hamilton Lecture Speakers Events ArchiveLaTeX Demo Page Physics Pumpkin Toss 2017! Home Thomas Gregor Main menu: sub-menu items Faculty Administration Researchers Dicke Fellows Graduate Students Thomas Gregor Professor of Physics & BiophysicsPhone:609-258-4335 Email Address: tg2@Princeton.EDU Assistant:Susan Sabatura Office Location:120 Jadwin HallWebsite:tglab.princeton.edu/ My laboratory is interested in problems at the interface of physics and biology. The main thrust of our research is the design of new experimental approaches and the performance of high-precision physics-style measurements in living animals, such that our data allows for direct validation of mathematical models. This program is aimed at the generation of theories describing biological phenomena which are derived from general principles in the physics tradition. Currently our main interests lie in the collective behaviors of eukaryotic cells all the way from microbes to embryonic tissue, and in how the control of gene expression in early fly embryos leads to the formation of an animal body plan. We are making experimental and theoretical progress on the biological questions in each of these areas, the long-term goal, however, is to find theories inspired by experimental data that go beyond the specifics of the biological systems with the hope of finding in the living world some new physics, which has been hidden and cannot necessarily be revealed in the inanimate world. Research in the lab is highly interdisciplinary. The interests and expertise of the lab's members range from physics to biology to computer science to engineering; we use a combination of computational and experimental approaches. We build microscopes and microfluidic devices to measure the concentrations dynamics of proteins and signaling molecules; we develop imaging techniques to count single molecules in large scattering tissues; we use tools from molecular biology and genetics to manipulate the organisms we study; and we use image analysis and modeling to analyze our data. Researchers are encouraged to move freely between the different disciplines and to learn a variety of techniques according to their specific needs and interests. We primarily address questions concerning the development of fruit fly embryos and emergent collective behavior via cell signaling in social amoeba populations, but we are open to new ideas and collaborations addressing questions in other model systems. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you are a potentially interested undergraduate student, graduate student, postdoc, or collaborator.For more information please visit my laboratory's homepage. Publications List:Abouchar L, Petkova MD, Steinhardt CR, Gregor T (2013).Precision and reproducibility ofmacroscopic developmental patterns.arXiv.org:1309.6273 [q-bio.TO]. Garcia HG, Tikhonov M, Lin A, Gregor T (2013). Quantitative imaging of transcription inliving Drosophila embryos links polymerase activity to patterning.Current Biology23: 21142119. Little SC, Tikhonov M, Gregor T (2013).Precise developmental gene expression arisesfrom globally stochastic transcriptional activity.Cell154: 789800. Liu F, Morrison AH, Gregor T (2013).Dynamic interpretation of maternal inputs by theDrosophila segmentation gene network.Proceedings of the National Academy of Science110: 67246729. Dubuis JO, Samanta R, Gregor T (2013).Accurate measurements of dynamics andreproducibility in small genetic networks.Molecular Systems Biology9: 639. Little SC, Tkacik G, Kneeland T, Wieschaus EF, Gregor T (2011).The formation of theBicoid morphogen gradient requires protein movement from anteriorily localized mRNA.PLoS Biology9(3), e1000596. Gregor T, Fujimoto K, Masaki N, Sawai S (2010).The onset of collective behavior in socialamoebae.Science328: 10211026. Department of Physics Jadwin Hall, Washington Road Princeton, New Jersey 08544 Secondary menuSafety IT Help Internals Hotlines Physics Department "Comment Box" Facebook Linkedin Twitter Accessibility 2021 The Trustees of Princeton University
