Campuzano, Juan Carlos | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Juan Carlos Campuzano, PhD UIC Distinguished Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2608 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 996-9263 Email: jcc@uic.edu About Professor Campuzano's research is in many areas of condensed matter physics, such as critical phenomena and two-dimensional phase transitions, the electronic structure of high temperature superconductors, and the development of techniques for studying empty electron energy levels in solids. A very-high-resolution low energy electron diffractometer was developed. This instrument has allowed him to confirm several predictions, such as the nature of the fluctuations in continuous two-dimensional phase transitions. More recently, he has shown that a newly discovered symmetry in nature, called conformal invariance, allows the calculation of the scattering behavior of particles from a material undergoing a phase transition without any knowledge of the details of the interaction. In the field of high temperature superconductivity, his group is determining the electronic structure of these exciting new compounds by photoemission spectroscopy, in which the sample is bombarded with ultraviolet light, releasing electrons that are analyzed to determine their original energy states in the sample. Major results from this work are the observation of a normal state with a Luttinger Fermi surface, flat bands in the dispersion, the momentum dependence of the superconducting gap, the pseudogap in the charge channel, the existance of Femi arcs, time reversal symmetry breaking, etc. Selected Publications Evolution of the pseudogap from Fermi arcs to the nodal liquid, A. Kanigel, et al. Nature Physics 2, 447 (2006). Protected Nodes and the Collapse of Fermi Arcs in High-Tc Cuprate Superconductors, A. Kanigel, et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 157001 (2007) Coherent d-Wave Superconducting Gap in Underdoped La2-xSrxCuO4 by Angle-Resolved Photoemission Spectroscopy, M. Shi, et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 047002 (2008). Evidence for pairing above the transition temperature of cuprate superconductors from the electronic dispersion in the pseudogap phase, A. Kanigel, et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 137002 (2008). Observation of a d-wave nodal liquid in highly underdoped Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+, U. Chatterjee, et al. Nature Physics 6, 99 (2010) Education BS, Physics (1972), University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee MS, Physics (1973), University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee PhD, Physics (1978), University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
