Morr, Dirk | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Dirk Morr, PhD Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2614 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 996-2237 Email: dkmorr@uic.edu About Professor Morr's research in theoretical condensed matter physics focuses on the abundance of interesting phenomena in strongly correlated electron systems. He has worked on a wide range of topics, ranging from quantum phase transitions, and optical and electronic properties of magnetic systems to the interplay of magnetism and superconductivity and related resonance phenomena. He has developed a series of theoretical models to explain the results of nuclear-magnetic resonance, angle-resolved photoemission, tunnelling spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and neutron scattering experiments. Among his more recent work is the prediction of an unconventional, current-carrying phase in the pseudo-gap regime of the high-temperature superconductors. He has shown that the existence of a magnetic resonance peak in Sr2RuO4 is tied to the symmetry of its superconducting state. Professor Morr's recent work has also addressed the effects of impurities in magnetic systems and superconductors, as well as quantum interference effects between impurities. Selected Publications Molecular Nanostructures on the Surface of a $d_{x^2-y^2}$-Superconductor, R. H. Nyberg and D. K. Morr, cond-mat/0410717 Quantum Corrals, Eigenmodes and Quantum Mirages ins-wave Superconductors, D. K. Morr and N. A. Stavropoulos,Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 107006 (2004). First order superconducting transition near a ferromagnetic quantum critical point, A. V. Chubukov, A. Finkelstein, R. Haslinger, and D. K. Morr, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 077002 (2003). Local Defects in Metallic Quantum Critical Systems, A.J. Millis, D.K. Morr, and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 167202 (2001). The Resonance Peak in Sr2RuO4: Signature of Spin Triplet Pairing, D.K. Morr, P.F. Trautman and M.J. Graf, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 5978 (2001). Education BS, Physics (1989), Heidelberg University MS, Physics (1993), Freie Universitaet Berlin PhD, Physics (1997), University of Wisconsin at Madison Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
