Schlossman, Mark | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mark Schlossman, PhD Professor and Associate Department Head Physics Contact Building & Room: 2610 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 996-8787 Email: schloss@uic.edu Related Sites: Water Interfaces Group Website About Mark Schlossman started research on water surfaces during his postdoctoral appointment with Professor Peter Pershan at Harvard University. Many years later in 2012, Mark and Peter published a book entitled Liquid Surfaces and Interfaces: Synchrotron X-ray Methods that included this early joint work as well as many independent research activities carried out during the intervening years. After his postdoc, Mark worked at the Center for Advanced Radiation Sources at the University of Chicago from 1990 1994, during which time he funded (along with Stuart Rice), designed, and built an instrument at the National Synchrotron Light Source at Brookhaven National Laboratory to study water and other liquid surfaces and interfaces with synchrotron X-rays. Upon joining the UIC Department of Physics in 1994, Mark used this new instrument to pioneer the study of molecular organization at the water-organic liquid-liquid interface. In 2002, Marks continued involvement with ChemMatCARS at the University of Chicago led to the installation of a modified version of this instrument at the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory. Mark continues his association with ChemMatCARS to this day, contributing to the development and funding of this facility, as well as using it for his research. During Marks years at UIC, his research group has used X-ray scattering and other techniques to provide a physical description of molecular-level processes at water surfaces and interfaces, with a more recent emphasis on understanding the role of electrostatics in these processes. This has led to a new understanding of the distribution of ions at interfaces, including the role of ion correlations and interfacial structure in determining them. Such distributions underlie the equilibrium and dynamical properties of charged molecules and particles at interfaces and in bulk solution. Ion distributions are relevant to many scientific and industrial processes, including areas of societal relevance such as water treatment and purification. Recent research in Marks group includes a fundamental understanding of extractant-assisted ion transfer, which is relevant for environmental remediation, water cleanup, and heavy metal separations. A new area of research in Marks group (as of 2014) is the voltage-controlled localization and assembly of charged nanoparticles at liquid-liquid interfaces. Other areas of interest include the study of protein interactions with hydrophilic surfaces, such as membranes, surfactant ordering and interactions at liquid surfaces and interfaces, and nanoscale aqueous films. The majority of this research is experimental, though theory and simulations have been undertaken in support of the experiments. Selected Publications Water at Functional Interfaces, Shekhar Garde and Mark L. Schlossman, Materials Research Society Bulletin39(2014) Edited Issue. Interfacial Localization and Voltage-Tunable Arrays of Charged Nanoparticles, M. K. Bera, H. Chan, D. F. Moyano, H. Yu, S. Tatur, D. Amoanu, W. Bu, V. M. Rotello, M. Meron, P. Krl, B. Lin, and M. L. Schlossman, Nano Letters14, 6816-6822 (2014). Observation of a Rare Earth Ion-Extractant Complex Arrested at the Oil-Water Interface During Solvent Extraction, Wei Bu, Hao Yu, Guangming Luo, Mrinal K. Bera, Binyang Hou, Adam W. Schuman, Binhua Lin, Mati Meron, Ivan Kuzmenko, Mark R. Antonio, L. Soderholm, Mark L. Schlossman, Journal of Physical Chemistry B118, 10662-10674 (2014) Liquid Surfaces and Interfaces: Synchrotron X-ray Methods, Peter S. Pershan and Mark L. Schlossman, Cambridge University Press (2012). Tuning Ion Correlations at an Electrified Soft Interface, Nouamane Laanait, Miroslav Mihaylov, Binyang Hou, Hao Yu, Petr Vanysek, Mati Meron, Binhua Lin, Ilan Benjamin, and Mark L. Schlossman, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (USA),109, 20326-20331 (2012). Ion Distributions Near a Liquid-Liquid Interface, Guangming Luo, Sarka Malkova, Jaesung Yoon, David G. Schultz, Binhua Lin, Mati Meron, Ilan Benjamin, Petr Vanysek, and Mark L. Schlossman, Science311, 216-218 (2006). Education BS, Physics (1980), MIT MS, Physics (1983), Cornell University PhD, Physics (1987), Cornell University Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
