Ugalde, Claudio | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Claudio Ugalde, PhD Clinical Assistant Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2176 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 413-2790 Email: cugalde@uic.edu About The research interests of Dr. Ugalde comprise nucleosynthesis, and the structure and evolution of stars. Among other problems, his work is related to questions such as how are the elements of the periodic table made, how a star ends up its life as a black hole or as a neutron star, or why it is that living organisms have a biochemistry based on carbon. The answers to these fundamental questions and many others have their core in nuclear astrophysics. Many of the chemical elements in the universe are synthesized in supernovae explosions. When a star ends its life in a gravitational collapse, it produces a dense object and an enormous flux of neutrinos and other particles. As a result, many isotope species are produced by nuclear reactions. An insight on these processes can be gained with stellar spectra measured by astronomical observations and by isotopic abundances determined from presolar grains found in some meteorites. These measurements provide scientists with clues about the conditions in which the chemical elements were formed inside a star. However, the main challenge in the work of Dr. Ugalde is that it is not yet possible to have a stellar object in the laboratory. Nevertheless, nuclear astrophysicists are capable of simulating some of the conditions in these extreme environments. For example, with particle accelerators, researchers can induce reactions between atomic nuclei at the energies that are common inside a star. Dr. Ugalde is the spokesperson of proposal PR12-13-005 at Jefferson Laboratory. This experimental program will measure a particularly important nuclear reaction mechanism that makes oxygen out of helium and carbon. The rate at which this occurs has strong implications in the way a star evolves during its lifetime and produces many of the chemical elements. Unfortunately, this nuclear process occurs with such a small probability (s ~ 1x10-41cm2) that it is very challenging to study it in the laboratory. This is why intense g-ray beams produced by the CEBAF at Jefferson Laboratory are an excellent way of studying this cross section by photodisintegration of oxygen inside a bubble chamber detector. Other work of Dr. Ugalde includes astrophysics experiments with stable and radioactive beams at Argonne National Laboratory. He is also a referee for Physical Review, and frequently talks about astronomy and astrophysics at Adler Planetarium. Dr. Ugalde joined the faculty at UIC after working at the University of Chicago, Argonne, and at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Selected Publications Measurements of Fusion Reactions of Low-Intensity Radioactive Carbon Beams on12C and their Implications for the Understanding of X-Ray Bursts. Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 192701 (2014). Direct Measurement of the23Na(,p)26Mg Reaction Cross Section at Energies Relevant for the Production of Galactic26Al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 152701 (2014). Bubble chambers as devices for measuring astrophysical thermonuclear rates. Phys. Lett. B 719, 74 (2013). Fusion of60Ni +100Mo near and below the Coulomb barrier. The European Physical Journal A 49:63, 1 (2013). Measurement of elastic12C+ scattering: Above the proton separation energy. Phys. Rev. C 85, 045804 (2012). Fusion reactions with the one-neutron halo nucleus15C, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 172701 (2011). Education BSc, Nuclear Physics (1997), Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico PhD, Nuclear Astrophysics (2005), University of Notre Dame Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
