Cavanaugh, Richard | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Richard Cavanaugh, PhD Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2268 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 996-5358 Email: cavana@uic.edu Related Sites: Richard Cavanough's Personal Website High Energy Particle Physics Group About Professor Cavanaugh, specializes in Particle Physics and holds a joint appointment with Fermilab. His current research interests include searching for new fundamental symmetries in nature and possible extra dimensions of space, which may probe the origin of dark matter in the universe. He received his PhD in 1999 from The Florida State University using the ALEPH experiment and the Large Electron-Positron Collider at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva, Switzerland. Continuing his work on ALEPH, he subsequently accepted a post-doctoral appointment at the Universitaet Heidelberg in Germany. In 2001 he joined the research faculty at the University of Florida. There he worked on the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment at the CERN Large Hadron Collider, and he coordinated several national initiatives in high performance Grid computing. Before joining UIC and Fermilab, Professor Cavanaugh spent time at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris as a visiting scientist, investigating Supersymmetry in the context of precision experimental data. Selected Publications Likelihood Functions for Supersymmetric Observables in Frequentist Analyses of the CMSSM and NUHM1. (Submitted Eur. J. Phys. C) Predictions for supersymmetric particle masses using indirect experimental and cosmological constraints. (JHEP 0809, 2008) Prediction of the Lightest Higgs Boson Mass in the CMSSM using Indirect Experimental Constraints (Physics Letters B 657, 2007) Fermion Pair Production in e+e- Collisions at 189-209 GeV and Constraints on Physics beyond the Standard Model (European Journal of Physics C 49, 2007) Measurement of the W boson mass and width in e+e- collisions at LEP. (Eur. J. Phys. C 47, 2006) Education BS Physics (1993), Southern College BA Mathematics (1993), Southern College PhD Physics (1999), Florida State University Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
