Ogut, Serdar | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Serdar Ogut, PhD Professor and Co-Director of Graduate Studies Physics Contact Building & Room: 2354 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 413-2786 Email: ogut@uic.edu About Dr. Ogut's research is focused on theoretical investigations of structural, electronic, and optical properties of materials from first principles. He uses ab initio pseudopotential total energy calculations and molecular dynamics simulations to study and predict composition/structure/property interrelationships in bulk semiconductors, intermetallic compounds, and nanostructured matter. In particular, Dr. Ogut's research is concentrated on electronic and structural properties of point and extended defects in electronic materials, and optical properties of elemental and compound semiconductor nanocrystals and clusters. Selected Publications Ab initio investigation of point defects in bulk Si and Ge using a cluster method, Serdar Ogut and James R. Chelikowsky, Phys.Rev.B 64, 245206 (2001). First-principles density-functional calculations for optical spectra of clusters and nanocrystals, I. Vasiliev, Serdar Ogut, J. R. Chelikowsky, Phys.Rev.B 65, 115416 (2002). Education BS, Physics (1988), Middle East Technical University MS, Physics (1990), Middle East Technical University PhD, Physics (1995), Yale University Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
