Sivananthan, Sivalingam | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Sivalingam Sivananthan, PhD Director of Microphysics Laboratory and LAS Distinguished Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2360 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 996-5092 Email: siva@uic.edu About The Microphysics Laboratory (MPL) pioneered the MBE growth, characterization, and device fabrication of HgCdTe and related materials for infrared focal plane arrays. As the Director of MicroPhysics Lab (MPL), my goal has been to form a major center for heteroepitaxy with emphasis on the study of the physics of interface formation. With internal and external support, the MPL has already become such a center for researchers. I was able to increase our funding while several major research centers related to II-VI materials lost a majority of their funding. My ultimate organizational goal is to see the establishment of an interdepartmental, intercollegial Institute or Center for Materials Science and Technology with the emphasis in hetero-epitaxy. I have built research collaborations with national and international universities and institutes. I strongly believe that a close interaction between university and industrial researchers is not only important for moving forward the critical technologies, but also will provide appropriate training for graduate and undergraduate students. My personal research has centered upon the molecular beam epitaxial (MBE) growth of new heteroepitaxial systems under varied growth conditions, their characterization by electrical, structural and optical measurements, and the analysis of the results of these measurements to study the interfacial growth process. For over two decades I have been conducting research in the physics of semiconductors with immediate applicability in infrared (IR) and night-vision detector technology and photovoltaic solar cell technology. Semiconductor heteroepitaxy offers scientific and technological challenges because the two semiconductors on opposite sides of the heterointerface exhibit different lattice parameters, thermal expansion coefficients, and chemical bonding characteristics which can produce an electrostatic charge at the interface. These differences, and hence these challenges, are especially great for the growth of II-VI semiconductors on Si substrates, which have been pioneered by the MPL. The enormity of the difficulty of growing CdTe epitaxially on Si is obvious when one considers that (1) the lattice constants of CdTe and Si differ by 19.3 per cent, (2) the thermal expansion coefficients differ by almost a factor of two, and (3) CdTe has a large ionic component to its bonding, whereas Si bonds purely covalently. Usually, the accommodation of the lattice mismatch is achieved through interfacial dislocations, which are generated at the interface and propagate into the growing crystal. Yet, we have recently been able to reduce the dislocation density in CdTe/Si to 105 cm 2 , approximately the same density found in high quality bulk CdTe. This was achieved by introducing an interfacial layer, such as As, which has allowed the formation of coherent interface. The lattice mismatch was relaxed by almost perfect misfit dislocations. We were able to achieve this by careful understanding of the substrate surface and growth nucleation. At present, MPL is recognized worldwide as the academic center of excellence for the MBE growth of MCT. MPLs research is focused on the perfection of the MBE growth of MCT, the study of in-situ/ex-situ doping and transport, and the growth of high quality alternative composite CdTe/Si substrates to be used for the growth of large area MCT epitaxial layers. Selected Publications Authored or co-authored over 200 refereed journal articles and oral presentations. Investigations on the structural and optical properties of Li, N and (Li, N) co-doped ZnO thin films prepared by solgel technique C. Ravichandran, G.Srinivasan, C. Lenn Growth of PbSe on ZnTe/GaAs(211)B by Molecular Beam Epitaxy X. J. Wang, Y. B. Hou, Y.Chang, C.R. Becker, R.F. Klie, R. Kodama, F. Aqariden, S. Sivananthan. Journal of Crystal Growth, Volume 311, Issue 8, April 2009, Pages 2359-2362. Effects of annealing in N2 on sputtered Al-doped ZnO thin films C. Lennon, R. Kodama, Y. Chang, S. Sivananthan, and M. Deshpande J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 27 1641(2009) On the optical dispersive properties of HgCdTe as a function of depth Y. Chang, V. Nathan, P. D. LeVan, C. H. Grein, C R. Becker, S. Sivananthan Proc. SPIE, Vol. 7419, 74190G August 2009 Effects of Annealing in a Partially Reducing Atmosphere on Sputtered Al-Doped ZnO Thin Films Journal of Electronic Materials, Vol. 38, No. 8, 2009 1568-1573 Education BS, Physics (1980), University of Peradeniya MS, Physics (1985), University of Illinois at Chicago PhD, Physics (1987), University of Illinois at Chicago Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
