Varelas, Nikos | Physics | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Physics College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Nikos Varelas, PhD Vice Provost for Undergraduate Affairs and Academic Programs; and LAS Distinguished Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2134 SES Address: 845 West Taylor St. Office Phone: (312) 996-3415 Email: varelas@uic.edu Related Sites: Nikos Varelas's Home Page High Energy Particle Physics Group About Nikos Varelas, LAS Distinguished Professor in UICs Department of Physics, was appointed Vice Provost for Undergraduate Affairs effective August 16, 2016. Previously Dr. Varelas was the Associate Dean for Student Affairs in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. In his two decades as a faculty member and administrator at UIC, Dr. Varelas has productively worked with faculty, administrators and students across LAS departments and other colleges to promote and facilitate student success. Dr. Varelas has contributed to ensuring student success as an award-winning teacher and researcher, an Honors College Faculty Fellow, and in roles including the LAS Executive Committee and the UIC Faculty Senate. He served as co-chair of the Faculty Engagement Task Force of UICs Student Success Initiative in 2013, resulting in projects currently under implementation through the Provosts Office. As Associate Dean in LAS, Dr. Varelas championed innovative policy changes, programs, and initiatives. These include the creation of one Bachelors and one Masters program, four new minors and one concentration, and the revision of over a dozen degree programs. Among these new programs is the B.S. in Integrated Health Studies, a model of interdisciplinary, intercollegiate education. In collaboration with several departments and colleges, Dr. Varelas introduced reforms that have led to significant improvements in student performance and success in calculus courses that are taken by more than 4,000 students across the campus, and he facilitated the growth and impact of the campus Learning Centers that support thousands of students every semester. A prolific collaborative researcher and leader in the scientific community, Dr. Varelas has made important contributions to the field of high-energy particle physics as a member of two leading international experimental collaborations: the D-Zero experiment at Fermilab and the CMS experiment at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. Dr. Varelas was also a member of the team of scientists who discovered the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider in July 2012. Dr. Varelas has served as an elected member of the Executive Committee of the American Physical Society Division of Particles and Fields, with approximately 4,000 members, and as Chair of the Users Executive Committee at Fermilab, serving approximately 2,500 users. Since joining UIC in 1997, Dr. Varelas work has been continuously funded, securing more than $7 million from NSF and other sources. Dr. Varelas is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a University of Illinois Scholar, and he has been recognized by his college with the LAS Distinguished Professorship, the Outstanding Faculty Award, and the Faculty Service Award. Selected Publications Measurement of the ratios of the Z/gamma* n jet production cross sections to the total inclusive Z/gamma* cross section in ppbar collisions at sqrt(s)=1.96 TeV, Physics Letters B. 658, 112-119 (2008). Search for a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson, Physics Letters B 655, 209 (2007). A Measurement of the Ratio of Inclusive Cross Sections pbarp->Zb/pbarp->Zj at sqrt(s)=1.96 TeV, Physical Review Letters 94, 161801 (2005). High-pT Jets in pbarp Collisions at sqrt(s)=630 and 1800 GeV, Physical Review D 64, 032003 (2001). Evidence of Color Coherence Effects in W Jets Events from pbarp Collisions at sqrt(s)=1.8 TeV, Physics Letters B {464}, 145 (1999). Education BS, Physics (1985), University of Athens PhD, Physics (1994), University of Rochester Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
