Ron Rohrer Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering About ECE About ECE Message from the Chair Mission & Goals Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities Laboratories and Facilities Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security AT&T Center for Virtualization People News & Events Electrical and Computer Engineering People Faculty & Staff Ron Rohrer Ron Rohrer Cecil & Ida Green Chair and Professor Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Contact Phone: 214-768-1734 Email: Educational Background MIT SB EE (1960); UC Berkeley MS EE (1961) and Ph.D. EE (1963). About Applications of Adjoint Circuit Sensitivity Analysis One of the preeminent researchers in electronic design automation, Ron Rohrers contributions to improving integrated circuit (IC) production span over 50 years. Rohrer realized early on that circuit simulation was crucial to all aspects of IC design, and introduced a sequence of projects in courses at UC Berkeley that evolved into SPICE, now the industry standard for IC simulation. Decades later at Carnegie Mellon University, he introduced the Asymptotic WaveformEvaluation(AWE) algorithm, which enabled efficient timing simulation of ICs containing extremely large numbers of parasitic elements. He is a legendary inventor, author & co-author of 5 patents, 5 textbooks and more than 100 technical papers. He was founding editor of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems from 1981-1984 and President of the Circuits and Systems Society of the IEEE in 1987. Rohrer was made Fellow, IEEE in 1980, and inducted into the National Academy of Engineering in 1989. He has served on numerous AIEE, IEEE, NAE and US Government committees. His contributions to the field have also been acknowledged by major awards, including the IEEE Kirchhoff Award in 2012, the IEEE CAS Belevitch Award in 2009, the EDAC Phil Kaufman Award in 2002, the NEC Corp. C&C Prize in 1996, the IEEE Education Medal in 1993, and the SRC Technical Excellence Award in 1991, the IEEE CAS Van Valkenburg Award in 1990, the SRC Inventor Recognition Award in 1990, and the ASEE Terman Award in 1978. Rohrer was granted the Senior Humboldt Fellowship, RWTH, Aachen from1972-1973, and four other acknowledgements for prize papers between 1967 and1991. In addition to his academic career, he has been involved in over a dozen start-ups and has held executive positions in publicly traded companies. Rohrer is currently theCecil & Ida Green Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering in the Lyle School of Engineering at Southern Methodist Universitys (SMU). National Academy of Engineering The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) IEEE Life Fellow Author and co-author of five textbooks and more than 100 technical papers Holder of six patents Recipient of 11 major awards, including the IEEE Education Medal and the NEC C&C Prize School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
