Ping Gui Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering About ECE About ECE Message from the Chair Mission & Goals Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities Laboratories and Facilities Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security AT&T Center for Virtualization People News & Events Electrical and Computer Engineering People Faculty & Staff Ping Gui Ping Gui Professor Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Contact Email: pgui@lyle.smu.edu Professional website: http://www.lyle.smu.edu/~pgui Educational Background Ph.D. University of Delaware About IC Design for Diverse Applications (RF, Milli-meter (mm) Wave, Medical Devices) Highly-reliable Circuits Designed for Harsh Environments 3D IC Thermal Modeling and Testing Ping Gui received her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Delaware and is currently a Professor of Electrical Engineering at Southern Methodist University. Her research interests include high-speed and lowpower analog, mixedsignal, and Radio-Frequency (RF) IC design for a variety of applications including communications, security, medical, automotive, and circuits and systems for harsh environments. Her current research is funded by DoE, NSF, SRC, CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research), FermiLab, Brookhaven National Lab (BNL), Texas Instruments, and other industrial companies. She is currently supervising 9 full-time Ph.D students and several MS/undergraduate students. She is an author/co-author of 57 peer reviewed technical papers, a senior member of IEEE, and currently the technical chair of the IEEE Solid-States Circuits Society Dallas Chapter. School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
