Bruce Gnade Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering About ECE About ECE Message from the Chair Mission & Goals Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities Laboratories and Facilities Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security AT&T Center for Virtualization People News & Events Electrical and Computer Engineering People Faculty & Staff Bruce Gnade Bruce Gnade Clinical Professor Department of Mechanical Engineering Contact Phone: 214-768-1717 Email: bngnade@smu.edu Professional website: http://people.smu.edu/xlgao/ Educational Background B.A. in chemistry from St. Louis University; Ph.D. in nuclear chemistry from the Georgia Institute of Technology About Electronics for Harsh Environments Semiconductor Devices Dr. Gnade previously held leadership positions in industry and public service, including Texas Instruments, PixTech, Inc., and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), where he served as a program manager overseeing influential technology research projects for the Department of Defense. Gnade has authored or co-authored more than 195 refereed journal articles and holds 77 U.S. patents and 55 foreign patents. He is a member of the Materials Research Society, the American Physical Society, the Society for Information Displays, and senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers(IEEE). His academic career includes faculty appointments at the University of Maryland, the University of North Texas, and the University of Texas at Dallas (UTD). As the Distinguished Chair in Microelectronics and Vice President of Research at UTD, Gnade helped grow university research expenditures from $45M to $100M over a nine year period. School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
