Mayank Goel | Human-Computer Interaction Institute Jump to navigation Human-Computer Interaction Institute Search form Search AcademicsPh.D. in HCI Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Courses Plagiarism Policy Independent Study ResearchFaculty Projects Affiliated Faculty Projects MHCI Capstone Projects Technical Report Collection Archived Projects Doing Research With Us HCII Summer Undergraduate Research Program News & EventsCalendar News In the Media Seminar Series Spotlights PeopleFaculty Affiliated Faculty Special Faculty & Postdocs Adjunct Faculty PhD Students Master's Students HCI Undergraduates Alumni Administrative Staff Technical Staff Facilities Giving About Careers HCII, Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 HCII is part of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University You are hereHomePeople Faculty Mayank Goel Assistant Professor Email mayankgoel@cmu.edu Advisees Julian Ramos Rojas ingenia [at] cs.cmu.edu Rushil Khurana rushil [at] cmu.edu Prerna Chikersal pchikers [at] andrew.cmu.edu Google Scholar Visit my website Karan Ahuja kahuja [at] andrew.cmu.edu Visit my website Lab Link(s) Smash Lab Google Scholar Google Scholar Webpage Visit my website Research Areas Context-Aware Computing Enabling Technologies Healthcare Sensors Wearables Research Interests My research focuses on designing, implementing, and testing new sensing systems. I typically focus on repurposing and extending the capabilities of sensors and devices around us. This approach allows us to add various functionalities to our daily-use devices with negligible hardware modifications. I am interested in solving problems in various domains, including health sensing, technologies for global development, and novel interactions. Many times solutions in such domains need to be used and evaluated by the end user in their daily lives. Consequently, I collaborate closely with medical professionals, bio-engineers, and designers to develop end-to-end solutions that can be immediately used and evaluated outside the lab environment. Bio My research focuses on designing, implementing, and testing new sensing systems. I typically focus on repurposing and extending the capabilities of sensors and devices around us. This approach allows us to add various functionalities to our daily-use devices with negligible hardware modifications. I am interested in solving problems in various domains, including health sensing, technologies for global development, and novel interactions. Many times solutions in such domains need to be used and evaluated by the end user in their daily lives. Consequently, I collaborate closely with medical professionals, bio-engineers, and designers to develop end-to-end solutions that can be immediately used and evaluated outside the lab environment. Upcoming Events PhD Thesis Defense: Steven Dang Dec 15 2021 - 10:30am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 21 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 28 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm Export Events Full Calendar Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Subscribe Contact us Email: hciiwebmaster [at] cs.cmu.edu Fax: 412-268-1266 Human-Computer Interaction Institute Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 The HCII is located on the 3rd floor of Newell-Simon Hall. Legal Info
