William Gosney Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering About ECE About ECE Message from the Chair Mission & Goals Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities Laboratories and Facilities Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security AT&T Center for Virtualization People News & Events Electrical and Computer Engineering People Emeritus William Gosney William Gosney Professor Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Educational Background B.S., North Carolina State University; M.S. and Ph.D., University of California at Berkeley About William Milton "Milt" Gosney, Jr., Professor of Electrical Engineering at the Lyle School of Engineering, joined the SMU faculty as the Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Electrical Engineering in 1986. In 2006, Professor Gosney was recognized as an Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor, and also has received several Outstanding Professor Awards in Electrical Engineering from the Lyle School. He holds 14 patents in the field of semiconductor devices, processes and circuits. He is a Life Senior Member of the IEEE, and a registered Professional Engineer in Texas. During thirty-plus years at SMU, approximately 16,000 students (more than twice the capacity of Moody Coliseum) took his EE-1301: Modern Electronic Technology course. Also, he has served as an expert witness in over 100 patent-infringement cases. Prior to SMU, Professor Gosney worked in industry for 17 years at Texas Instruments and Mostek Corporation (now part of ST Microelectronics). He retires as Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering. School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
