Prasanna Rangarajan Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering About ECE About ECE Message from the Chair Mission & Goals Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities Laboratories and Facilities Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security AT&T Center for Virtualization People News & Events Electrical and Computer Engineering People Faculty & Staff Prasanna Rangarajan Prasanna Rangarajan Assistant Professor Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Contact Phone: 214-768-3100 Email: prangara@smu.edu Educational Background B.S.E.E., Bangalore University, 2000; Ph.D., Southern Methodist University, 2014 About Imaging the unseen world by bridging the gap between Physical Optics and Electrical Engineering Prasanna Rangarajan directs the activities of the Photonics Architecture Lab within the Lyle School of Engineering. His research interests focus on the interplay between optics, signal processing and computer vision, and the unique insights it affords. These insights have led to the development of a new class of imagers that are not beholden to the limitations of traditional electro-optic design. Prior to his appointment at SMU, he was enrolled as a graduate student in the PhD program in the Lyle School of Engineering. The technical innovations described in his dissertation have been recognized with multiple awards and issued US patents. In 2015, DARPA identified him as an up-and-coming researcher capable of discovering and leveraging innovative opportunities for technological surprise. He received his Bachelors degree in Electronics Engineering from Bangalore University, in 2000, and a PhD in Electrical Engineering from SMU in 2014. School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
