Brad Myers | Human-Computer Interaction Institute Jump to navigation Human-Computer Interaction Institute Search form Search AcademicsPh.D. in HCI Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Courses Plagiarism Policy Independent Study ResearchFaculty Projects Affiliated Faculty Projects MHCI Capstone Projects Technical Report Collection Archived Projects Doing Research With Us HCII Summer Undergraduate Research Program News & EventsCalendar News In the Media Seminar Series Spotlights PeopleFaculty Affiliated Faculty Special Faculty & Postdocs Adjunct Faculty PhD Students Master's Students HCI Undergraduates Alumni Administrative Staff Technical Staff Facilities Giving About Careers HCII, Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 HCII is part of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University You are hereHomePeople Brad Myers Professor Human-Computer Interaction Institute Email bam@cs.cmu.edu Phone 412-268-5150 Find Me Newell-Simon Hall 3517 Advisees Amber Horvath ahorvath [at] andrew.cmu.edu MaryBeth Kery mkery [at] cs.cmu.edu Visit my website Jiajun (Toby) Li jiajunl1 [at] cs.cmu.edu Visit my website Michael Xieyang Liu xieyangl [at] cs.cmu.edu Google Scholar Visit my website Lab Link(s) Natural Programming Lab Google Scholar Google Scholar Webpage Visit my website Adminstrative Staff Rosemary Peta-Eizenhafer rpetaeiz [at] andrew.cmu.edu Research Areas Enabling Technologies Research Interests User interface software, handheld devices, making programming easier, intelligent user interfaces, demonstrational interfaces Bio Brad A. Myers is a Professor in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University. He was chosen to receive the ACM SIGCHI Lifetime Achievement Award in Research in 2017, for outstanding fundamental and influential research contributions to the study of human-computer interaction. He is an IEEE Fellow, ACM Fellow, member of the CHI Academy, and winner of 13 Best Paper type awards and 5 Most Influential Paper Awards. He is the author or editor of over 500 publications, including the books "Creating User Interfaces by Demonstration" and "Languages for Developing User Interfaces," and he has been on the editorial board of six journals. He has been a consultant on user interface design and implementation to over 85 companies, and regularly teaches courses on user interface design and software. Myers received a PhD in computer science at the University of Toronto where he developed the Peridot user interface tool. He received the MS and BSc degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology during which time he was a research intern at Xerox PARC. From 1980 until 1983, he worked at PERQ Systems Corporation. His research interests include user interfaces, programming environments, programming language design, end-user software engineering (EUSE), API usability, developer experience (DevX or DX), interaction techniques, programming by example, handheld computers, and visual programming. He belongs to ACM, SIGCHI, IEEE, and the IEEE Computer Society. Advisees Amber Horvath ahorvath [at] andrew.cmu.edu MaryBeth Kery mkery [at] cs.cmu.edu Visit my website Jiajun (Toby) Li jiajunl1 [at] cs.cmu.edu Visit my website Michael Xieyang Liu xieyangl [at] cs.cmu.edu Google Scholar Visit my website Other Advisees Daye Nam, PhD student, ISR Michael Coblenz, PhD student, CSD Robert C. Miller YoungSeok Yoon Thomas LaToza John Pane Rich McDaniel James Landay Francesmary Modugno Kerry Chang Stephen Oney Jeff Nichols Jacob Wobbrock Andrew Ko Projects Conversation With the Immaterial Material of Software Natural Programming Pebbles Upcoming Events PhD Thesis Defense: Steven Dang Dec 15 2021 - 10:30am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 21 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 28 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm Export Events Full Calendar Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Subscribe Contact us Email: hciiwebmaster [at] cs.cmu.edu Fax: 412-268-1266 Human-Computer Interaction Institute Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 The HCII is located on the 3rd floor of Newell-Simon Hall. Legal Info
