Chinmay Kulkarni | Human-Computer Interaction Institute Jump to navigation Human-Computer Interaction Institute Search form Search AcademicsPh.D. in HCI Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Courses Plagiarism Policy Independent Study ResearchFaculty Projects Affiliated Faculty Projects MHCI Capstone Projects Technical Report Collection Archived Projects Doing Research With Us HCII Summer Undergraduate Research Program News & EventsCalendar News In the Media Seminar Series Spotlights PeopleFaculty Affiliated Faculty Special Faculty & Postdocs Adjunct Faculty PhD Students Master's Students HCI Undergraduates Alumni Administrative Staff Technical Staff Facilities Giving About Careers HCII, Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 HCII is part of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University You are hereHomePeople Faculty Chinmay Kulkarni Associate Professor Email chinmayk@cs.cmu.edu Phone 412-268-5831 Find Me Newell-Simon Hall 2504E Advisees Julia Cambre jcambre [at] andrew.cmu.edu Yasmine Kotturi ykotturi [at] cs.cmu.edu Google Scholar Google Scholar Webpage Visit my website Adminstrative Staff Reenie Kirby reenie [at] cmu.edu Research Areas Learning Sciences and Technologies Social Computing Bio My research focuses on building technology that uses the networked properties of online communities to improve how people live and learn. Our work combines design techniques, AI models, and research on learning to create learning systems that work at scale. This research has already helped 100,000+ students from 130+ countries learn more effectively in MOOCs, and has advanced the science of learning. Some of the questions I want to address in the next decade: - How can we create online classrooms that enable students to learn in ways not possible in a physical classroom? - How can we create lifelong learners and create a global culture of lifelong learning? - Can we provide everyone on the planet higher education? Ubiquitous access to the Internet (mobile phones, Internet-connected devices) will get cheaper and more widely available. How do we design teaching methods and technology that will leverage this immense opportunity? Upcoming Events PhD Thesis Defense: Steven Dang Dec 15 2021 - 10:30am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 21 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 28 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm Export Events Full Calendar Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Subscribe Contact us Email: hciiwebmaster [at] cs.cmu.edu Fax: 412-268-1266 Human-Computer Interaction Institute Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 The HCII is located on the 3rd floor of Newell-Simon Hall. Legal Info
