Ken Koedinger | Human-Computer Interaction Institute Jump to navigation Human-Computer Interaction Institute Search form Search AcademicsPh.D. in HCI Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Courses Plagiarism Policy Independent Study ResearchFaculty Projects Affiliated Faculty Projects MHCI Capstone Projects Technical Report Collection Archived Projects Doing Research With Us HCII Summer Undergraduate Research Program News & EventsCalendar News In the Media Seminar Series Spotlights PeopleFaculty Affiliated Faculty Special Faculty & Postdocs Adjunct Faculty PhD Students Master's Students HCI Undergraduates Alumni Administrative Staff Technical Staff Facilities Giving About Careers HCII, Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 HCII is part of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University You are hereHomePeople Faculty Ken Koedinger Professor Human-Computer Interaction Institute Email koedinger@cmu.edu Phone 412-268-7667 Rsum View Rsum Find Me Newell-Simon Hall 3601 Advisees Steven Dang stevenda [at] cs.cmu.edu Nicholas Diana ndiana [at] cs.cmu.edu Judith (Odili) Uchidiuno jio [at] cs.cmu.edu Daniel (Danny) Weitekamp dweiteka [at] andrew.cmu.edu Google Scholar Google Scholar Webpage Visit my website Adminstrative Staff Jo Bodnar jobodnar [at] cs.cmu.edu Research Areas Learning Sciences and Technologies Research Interests Cognitive modeling, intelligent tutoring systems, learning science and technology Bio KENNETH R. KOEDINGER is a professor of Human Computer Interaction and Psychology at Carnegie Mellon University. Dr. Koedinger has an M.S. in Computer Science, a Ph.D. in Cognitive Psychology, and experience teaching in an urban high school. His multidisciplinary background supports his research goals of understanding human learning and creating educational technologies that increase student achievement. His research has contributed new principles and techniques for the design of educational software and has produced basic cognitive science research results on the nature of student thinking and learning. Koedinger directs LearnLab, which started with 10 years of National Science Foundation funding and is now the scientific arm of CMUs Simon Initiative. LearnLab builds on the past success of Cognitive Tutors, an approach to online personalized tutoring that is in use in thousands of schools and has been repeatedly demonstrated to increase student achievement, for example, doubling what algebra students learn in a school year. He was a co-founder of CarnegieLearning, Inc. that has brought Cognitive Tutor based courses to millions of students since it was formed in 1998, and leads LearnLab, now the scientific arm of CMUs Simon Initiative. Dr. Koedinger has authored over 250 peer-reviewed publications and has been a project investigator on over 45 grants. In 2017, he received the Hillman Professorship of Computer Science and in 2018, he was recognized as a fellow of Cognitive Science. Projects ALPS: Active Learning and Problem Solving tutor Assistment Project Bridging the Bridge to Algebra: Measuring and Optimizing the Influence of Prerequisite Skills on a Pre-Algebra Curriculum Computational Modeling and Data Mining IDEA: Evidence-Based Online Learning Courseware Engineering Metacognition and Motivation PACT Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center Rapid Development of Cognitive Models and Tutors SimStudent Social and Communicative Factors in Learning Upcoming Events PhD Thesis Defense: Steven Dang Dec 15 2021 - 10:30am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 21 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 28 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm Export Events Full Calendar Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Subscribe Contact us Email: hciiwebmaster [at] cs.cmu.edu Fax: 412-268-1266 Human-Computer Interaction Institute Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 The HCII is located on the 3rd floor of Newell-Simon Hall. Legal Info
