Laura Dabbish | Human-Computer Interaction Institute Jump to navigation Human-Computer Interaction Institute Search form Search AcademicsPh.D. in HCI Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Courses Plagiarism Policy Independent Study ResearchFaculty Projects Affiliated Faculty Projects MHCI Capstone Projects Technical Report Collection Archived Projects Doing Research With Us HCII Summer Undergraduate Research Program News & EventsCalendar News In the Media Seminar Series Spotlights PeopleFaculty Affiliated Faculty Special Faculty & Postdocs Adjunct Faculty PhD Students Master's Students HCI Undergraduates Alumni Administrative Staff Technical Staff Facilities Giving About Careers HCII, Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 HCII is part of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University You are hereHomePeople Faculty, -PhD Alumni Laura Dabbish Associate Professor Heinz College Human-Computer Interaction Institute 2006 Email dabbish@cmu.edu Phone 412-268-5347 Find Me Newell-Simon Hall 3605 Advisees Cori Faklaris cfaklaris [at] andrew.cmu.edu Visit my website Fannie Liu ffl [at] cs.cmu.edu Lab Link(s) Connected Experience Lab Google Scholar Google Scholar Webpage Visit my website Adminstrative Staff Nancy Beatty nbeatty [at] cmu.edu Research Areas Human Assistance Social Computing Bio I am an associate professor in the HCII and Heinz College at CMU. I study the social effects of digital transparency. My research connects social and organizational psychology with technology and design. An emerging Internet trend is greater digital transparency, such as the use of real names in social networking sites, feeds of friends' activities traces of content re-use, and visualizations of team interactions. This transparency could radically improve collaboration and learning. It also presents new challenges around privacy and identity management. My goal is to understand the social benefits and tradeoffs of digital transparency for users. I collaborate with researchers across a variety of fields, including social psychology, organizational behavior, sociology, cyber-security, networking, software development and information systems to understand this multifaceted socio-technical phenomenon. We study the nature of interaction in existing settings with high levels of digital transparency, such as online professional social networking communities, and experiment with new designs to make workflows, content provenance, and work histories transparent. Projects Coordinating Attention and Communication Digital Footprints Social Computing Lab Social Cybersecurity Upcoming Events PhD Thesis Defense: Steven Dang Dec 15 2021 - 10:30am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 21 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm HCII PhD Communication Requirement talks Jan 28 2022 - 9:00am to 12:00pm Export Events Full Calendar Follow Us Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Subscribe Contact us Email: hciiwebmaster [at] cs.cmu.edu Fax: 412-268-1266 Human-Computer Interaction Institute Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 The HCII is located on the 3rd floor of Newell-Simon Hall. Legal Info
