Directory: Faculty - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science SearchReveal Menu News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC GRADUATE RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM Seminars Fall 2021 SPRING 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Donors Alumni Curie Club Newsletter Faraday Lectures Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Contact Us Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources ChemSAC Seminars Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Contact Us Home Directory Current Page: Directory: Faculty Henry S. White Electrochemistry Distinguished ProfessorWidtsoe Presidential Endowed Chair in Chemistry B.S., University of North Carolina, 1978Ph.D., University of Texas, 1983Postdoctoral Associate, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1983-84 Phone: (801) 585-6256Office: B423 TBBCEmail: white@chem.utah.eduWhite Research Group Collaborations Interfacial and Bioanalytical Chemistry (IBAC) Multidisciplinary Research Program of the University Research Initiative(MURI) Energy Frontiers Research Centers CCI Center for Synthetic Organic Electrochemistry Activities & Awards Allen J. Bard Award, The Electrochemical Society, 2015 Utah Governor's Medal for Science and Technology, 2014 Fellow of the American Chemical Society, 2012 Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 2011 Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, 2011 Carl Wagner Award, The Electrochemical Society, 2010 American Chemical Society Utah Award, 2008 W.W. Epstein Outstanding Educator Award, U of Utah, 2007 David Grahame Award, The Electrochemical Society, 2005 President, Society of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 2003-2005 Associate Editor, Journal of the American Chemical Society ACS Analytical Division Award in Electrochemistry, 2004 University of Utah Distinguished Research Award, 2004 Students Choice Teaching Award, Associated Students of the U of Utah, 2003 Faraday Medal, Royal Society of Chemistry, Electrochemical Section, London, 2002 Chair, Gordon Research Conference on Electrochemistry, 2002 Charles N. Reilley Award, The Society of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 2000 Research Interests My colleagues and I are engaged in both experimental and theoretical aspects of electrochemistry, with diverse connections to analytical, biological, physical, and materials chemistry. Please see our group website for fuller project descriptions and links to recent publications. Transport in Thin Layer Batteries. We are studying ion transport in batteries in which the anode and cathode is separated by a ultra-thinelectrolyte layer (10s of nanometers wide). At this length scale, the electrical double layers that form at both the anode and cathode begin to overlap which results in changes in the molecular transport (diffusion and migration) of ions. We investigate this phenomenon both theoretical, using finite element simulations, and experimental, using nanometer-scale electrochemical cells. Nanopore Analysis of DNA. The protein pore HL has emerged as a powerful tool with which DNA can be analysed. While ssDNA can pass through the smallest constriction in HL (1.4 nm), dsDNA, which has a nominal diameter of 2.0 nm, cannot. However, it is possible to capture dsDNA inside the -HL vestibule and unzip it into its constituent single-stranded components. We have recently discovered that structural modifications in DNA in a duplex can also be detected from the magnitude to which ion flow is attenuated during dsDNA residence inside the protein pore. We are currently exploring uses of this sensing zone for identifying and discriminating damage sites in dsDNA. Nanopore Physics. Ion transport in confined geometries is significantly different from bulk solutions. For example, ion current rectification (ICR) in nanopores is a phenomenon that arises due to the asymmetric charge distribution of the nanopores. Our group has discovered a number of interesting ion transport and fluid phenomena in nanopore systems, including negative differential electrolyte resistance in which a fluid bistability results in a decrease in current with increasing applied voltage. Nanoparticle Analysis. We have developed an understanding of the dynamics of particles travelling through pores, the forces involved, and the various ionic contributions to the shape of the resistive pulse. This understanding has enabled us to develop a multipass resistive pulse method, where we switch the pressure/voltage to repeatedly pass individual nanoparticles back and forth through the orifice of a conical nanopore/nanopipette. This leads to a precisely determined mean blocking current equating to sub-nanometer particle size resolution. We are currently exploring controlled delivery of single particles & molecules to electrochemical interfaces. Nanobubbles. Gas nanobubbles formed at solid/liquid interfaces have received significant attention during the past decade due to their remarkable properties.We have developed an electrochemical approach for investigating the formation and properties of single nanobubbles of H2, N2, CO2, or O2 using Pt disk electrodes radii between 5 and 50 nm. The nanobubble experiments reveal the nucleation mechanism of single nanobubble at the interface, as well as provide insight into the structure and chemical dynamics of electrochemical three-phase solid/liquid/gas boundaries. Modeling Experimental Systems. For the systems investigated in the our group, the experimentally measured quantity is most typically the current, or a statistical measure derived from it, whereas our interest usually lies in the underlying physical and chemical phenomena. Interpretation of our data is typically underpinned by a theoretical model of the system, which may be an analytical expression or a numerical calculation, relating the measured quantity to one or more physical quantities. Typical problems include, for instance, relating electron-transfer rates with the local electrostatic potential distribution, computing the forces of a nanoparticle and its resulting velocity, or studying the effect of ion transport in confined spaces on the discharge rate of a 3D battery. Selected Publications: Robert P. Johnson, Aaron M. Fleming, Rukshan T. Perera, Cynthia J. Burrows, Henry S. White, The Dynamics of a DNA Mismatch Site Held in Confinement Discriminate Epigenetic Modifications to Cytosine, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139, 27502756. Yun Yu, Vignesh Sundaresan, Sabyasachi Bandyopadhyay, Yulun Zhang, Martin A. Edwards, Kim McKelvey, Henry S. White, and Katherine A. Willets, Three-Dimensional Super-Resolution Imaging of Single Nanoparticles Delivered by Pipettes, ACS Nano, 2017, 11, 1052910538. Donald Robinson, Yuwen Liu, Martin Edwards, Nicholas Vitti, Stephen Oja, Bo Zhang, Henry S. White, "Collision Dynamics During the Electrooxidation of Individual Silver Nanoparticles," J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139,169231693. H. Ren, S. R. German, M. A. Edwards, Q. Chen, and H. S. White Electrochemical Generation of Individual O2 Nanobubbles via H2O2 Oxidation, J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2017, 8, 2450-2454. Ruperto G. Mariano, Kim McKelvey, Henry S. White, Matthew W. Kanan, Selective Increase in CO2 Electroreduction Activity at Grain Boundary Surface Terminations, Science, 2017, 358, 1187. K. McKelvey, A. A. Talin, B. Dunn, and H. S. White, Microscale 2.5D Batteries, Journal of The Electrochemical Society,2017, 164, A2500-2503. H. S.White, K. McKelvey, Redox Cycling in NanogapElectrochemical Cells,Current Opinion in Electrochemistry,2018, 7, 48-53. Cherie S. Tan, Aaron M. Fleming , Hang Ren , Cynthia J. Burrows, and Henry S. White, -Hemolysin Nanopore Is Sensitive to Guanine-to-Inosine Substitutions in Double-Stranded DNA at the Single-Molecule Level, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018,140, 1422414234. Martin Edwards, Donald Robinson, Hang Ren, CameronCheyne, Cherie Tan, and Henry S. White, Nanoscale electrochemical kinetics & dynamics: the challenges and opportunitiesof single-entity measurements, Faraday Discuss.,2018,210, 9-28. lvaro Moreno Soto,Sean R. German,Hang Ren,Devaraj van der Meer,Detlef Lohse,Martin A. Edwards, andHenry S. White, Critical Nuclei Size, Rate, and Activation Energy of H2Gas Nucleation, Langmuir,2018,34, 73097318. Hang Ren, Cameron G. Cheyne, Aaron M. Fleming, Cythia J. Burrows, and Henry S. White. Single-Molecule Titration in a Protein Nanoreactor Reveals the Protonation/Deprotonation Mechanism of a C:C Mismatch in DNA, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018,140,5153-5160. Donald Robinson, Martin A. Edwards, Hang Ren, andHenry S. White, Effects of Instrumental Filters on Electrochemical Measurement of SingleNanoparticle Collision Dynamics, ChemElectroChem,2018,5, 3059-3067. Kim McKelvey, Donald A. Robinson, Nicholas J. Vitti, Martin A. Edwards, Henry S. White, Single Ag nanoparticle collisions within a dual-electrode micro-gap cell, Faraday Discuss., 2018, 210, 189-200. Sean R. German, Martin A. Edwards, Hang Ren,Henry S. White, Critical Nuclei Size, Rate, and Activation Energy of H2 Gas Nucleation, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018,140, 40474053. Xianchan Li, Lin Ren, Johan Dunevall, Daixin Ye, Henry S. White, Martin A. Edwards, and Andrew G. Ewing, On the Nanopore Opening at Flat and Nano-Tip Conical Electrodes during Vesicle Impact Electrochemical Cytometry, ACS Nano, 2018, 12, 30103019. Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020Salt Lake City, UT 84112801-581-6681 Stay in Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U 2021 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 6/3/21
