Valeria Molinero - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science SearchReveal Menu News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC GRADUATE RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM Seminars Fall 2021 SPRING 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Donors Alumni Curie Club Newsletter Faraday Lectures Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Contact Us Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources ChemSAC Seminars Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Contact Us Home Directory Current Page: Valeria Molinero Valeria Molinero PHYSICAL & MATERIALS CHEMISTRY Distinguished ProfessorJack and Peg Simons EndowedProfessor of Theoretical ChemistryDirector, Henry Eyring Center for Theoretical Chemistry Ph.D. University of Buenos Aires, 1999Postdoctoral Researcher, California Institute of Technology, 2000-2003Associate Researcher, Arizona State University, 2005-2006Associate Scientist, California Institute of Technology, 2003-2006 Phone: (801) 585-9618Office: 4623 Thatcher BuildingEmail: valeria.molinero@utah.eduResearch GroupPublications (link to Google Scholar) Activities & Awards Fellow, American Academy of Arts & Sciences, elected 2021 Cozzarelli Prize, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2020 University of Utah Distinguished Scholarly and Creative Research Award, 2019 Extraordinary Faculty Achievement Award, 2016 Camille Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award, 2012 College of Science Myriad Faculty Award for Research Excellence, 2011 Beckman Young Investigator Award, 2009 Helmholtz Award, International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam, 2005 Research Interests We use computer simulations, statistical mechanics and develop novel models to investigate the interplay between microscopic structure, dynamics and phase transformations in disordered materials. Structure and anomalies of liquid water and its solutions. Liquid water presents a series of thermodynamic, structural and dynamical anomalies that become the most pronounced in the supercooled region of the phase diagram. We investigate the origin of the anomalies, the development of long-range structural correlations in supercooled liquid water and the effect of the increase in the tetrahedrality of liquid water on the structure and phase segregation of aqueous solutions of salts. Nanophase segregation of aqueous solutions of LiCl as they are vitrified through hyperquenching. Mechanisms of ice crystallization in bulk and confined water. One of waters unsolved puzzles is what determines the lowest temperature at which liquid water and aqueous solutions can be cooled before freezing to ice. We use molecular simulations to elucidate the mechanism of water freezing and its relation to the thermodynamics and structure of supercooled water. Development of cubic (red) and hexagonal (green) ice in the crystallization of liquid water at 180 K. Nanoconfinement affects the phase behavior of water.Our work demonstrates that a bilayer of water can form a variety of novel structures based on pentagons, including a dodecagonal quasicrystal. Nucleation and Growth of Clathrate Hydrates. Clathrate hydrates are crystalline inclusion compounds of water and small molecules that such as carbon dioxide or methane. The concentration of the gas molecules in the hydrates is about 100 times larger than in solution. A main question is how do the clathrates form if the water and gas do not mix. We use molecular dynamics simulations with efficient coarse-grained models to investigate the stability and mechanisms of nucleation and growth of clathrate hydrates of guests with a wide range of sizes and hydrophilicity. The main questions we address are what are the structures of the clathrate nuclei and what are the mechanisms of their formation from two-phase fluid systems and from ice. Our simulations unravel a multistep mechanism of nucleation of clathrate hydrates that involves amorohous intermediates. Our work demonstrates that amorphous nuclei can grow crystalline clathrates. The state of water in nanoporous and nanostructured materials. Water is ubiquitous in biological and synthetic materials, where is often confined by a matrix. A goal of our research is to understand how the structure of the material and intermolecular interactions determine the distribution of water and the stability and metastability of waters liquid state. We investigate disordered systems with soft confinement, where the matrix is a rubbery polymer or a viscous supercooled liquid, and with hard confinement, such as mesoporous silica. Hydrated Nafion in a multi-scale heterogenous material Coarse Grained Modeling Atomistic & Coarse Grained Modeling Atomistic Simulations Hydrated Nafion in a multi-scale heterogenous material Development of coarse-grained models.Most of our work involves the study of phenomena that occur over times that makes them inaccessible to state of the art atomistic simulations. To address this issue we have developed very efficient coarse-grained molecular models of water, electrolytes, solvated DNA, and methane. For example, water can be modeled as an element of the group IV with tetrahedrality intermediate between carbon and silicon. The goal of developing coarse-grained models is two-fold: First, to simulate much longer time scales and larger systems at a small fraction of the computing cost, and thus to build the tools needed to tackle new, and so far untreatable, problems. The second, and most fundamental, goal of developing coarse-grained models is to understand what level of details is needed to reproduce (some? which ones?) physical properties of a substance. In this sense, the coarse-grained model, as all models and theories, allows us to extract a fundamental understanding of the molecular and macroscopic behavior of matter and put our hypothesis (and prejudices!) to test. Patents U.S. patent US60578034, "Fluorinated imidazoles as proton carriers for water-free proton exchange membranes for fuel cells". Inventors: W.A. Goddard III, W. Deng, and V. Molinero. Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020Salt Lake City, UT 84112801-581-6681 Stay in Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U 2021 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 6/3/21
