Directory: Faculty - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science SearchReveal Menu News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC GRADUATE RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM Seminars Fall 2021 SPRING 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Donors Alumni Curie Club Newsletter Faraday Lectures Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Contact Us Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources ChemSAC Seminars Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Contact Us Home Directory Current Page: Directory: Faculty Ming C. Hammond ORGANIC & BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY Associate Professor of ChemistryExecutive Committee, Henry Eyring Center for Cell and Genome ScienceCo-Director, U of U Beckman Scholar ProgramCo-Director, Utah Chemistry REU Program B. S. California Institute of Technology, 2000 Ph. D. University of California, Berkeley, 2005 Burroughs Wellcome Fund Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University, 2005-2009 Phone: 801-213-0892Office: 224B Crocker Science CenterEmail: mingch@chem.utah.eduResearch GroupBiological Chemistry Program Activities & Awards 2016 Women in Science Award, Chau Hoi Shuen Foundation 2011-2016 NIH Directors New Innovator Award 2011 Regents Junior Faculty Fellowship, UC Berkeley 2010 Presidential Chair Fellow, UC Berkeley 2010-2013 Chevron Chair of Chemistry, UC Berkeley 2010 Thieme Chemistry Journal Award 2008-2015 Career Award at the Scientific Interface, Burroughs Wellcome Fund 2000-2005 HHMI Predoctoral Fellowship 2000 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship (declined) 2000 Richard P. Schuster Memorial Prize in Chemistry, Caltech 1999-2000 Carnation Merit Award, Caltech 1999 Arie J. Haagen-Smith Memorial Award in Chemistry, Caltech 1998-1999 Beckman Scholar Fellowship 1998-1999 Caltech Prize Award Research Interests Illuminating the Single-Cell Biology and Function of Chemical Signals The Hammond lab has a dual focus on engineering nucleic acids as programmable tools for molecular imaging and gene control, and on understanding the chemistry and biology of nucleotide-based signaling molecules in bacteria and mammalian cells. Molecular Imaging: RNA-based fluorescent biosensors We are one of the first labs to develop fluorescent biosensors made of RNA for live cell imaging of enzyme activity. These sensors are designed by combining a riboswitch domain, which is an RNA that changes conformation upon binding a small molecule ligand, and a fluorophore-binding domain. Ligand selectivity is dictated by the riboswitch domain and can even be reprogrammed with single nucleotide changes. Our lab has established allosteric stem design rules, novel designs, and optimization strategies for making RNA-based fluorescent biosensors from a variety of riboswitch folds. We have made biosensors with best-in-class sensitivity (sub-nanomolar limit of detection), selectivity (better than commercial monoclonal antibodies), and in vivo brightness (143% brighter than parent fluorophore-binding aptamer). We have applied these biosensors to visualize enzyme activity in both gram positive and gram negative bacteria, under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, via fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry methods. We have 'watched' the chemical inhibition of an enzyme involved in biosynthesis of a quorum signaling molecule in live bacterial cells. We recently showed that the micronutrient zinc turns off a signaling enzyme that controls biofilm formation in E. coli, which helps to sensitize this common foodborne pathogen to antibiotics (Future of Biochemistry). Biosensor Papers:JACS 2013a, JACS 2015, JACS 2016, NAR 2016, Cell Chem Biol 2016, Biochem 2018, Methods 2018 Other Riboswitch-Based Methods Papers:JACS 2013b, Chem Biol 2013, Anal Chem 2014, RNA Biol 2015 Reviews: Methods Enz 2015, Methods Mol Biol 2015, Methods Mol Biol 2017, Annu Rev Biochem 2017, Microbiol Spec 2018 Signaling: Cyclic dinucleotides in bacteria and mammalian cells Cyclic dinucleotides are an emerging class of intracellular signaling molecules with diverse roles in bacteria and with newfound roles in innate immunity in mammalian cells. As second messengers, they are produced transiently in response to environmental stimuli and act inside the cell to change gene expression, physiology, and behavior. Given that three out of the four known cyclic dinucleotides were discovered in the past decade, much remains to be explored about their chemistry and biology. To study these chemical signals, our lab has developed fluorescent biosensors for each of the known cyclic dinucleotides. We also recently developed the first bioluminescent sensor for measuring cyclic dinucleotides in complex settings (Nat Chem Biol Research Highlight, JGI Science Highlight). (i) Cyclic AMP-GMP (cAG) signaling: Using an in vitro biosensor assay, we discovered a cyclic AMP-GMP (cAG)-sensing riboswitch class, which was highlighted by Science Signaling as a Signaling Breakthrough of the Year. These newfound cAG riboswitches were identified in Geobacter bacteria and predicted to control these bacteria's unique ability to relay electrons outside the cell. By screening for enzyme activity using an in vivo biosensor assay, we subsequently discovered a G. sulfurreducens GGDEF enzyme that makes cAG, which is the founding member of Hypr GGDEF enzymes. This discovery is significant because for almost 30 years GGDEF enzymes were considered synonymous with the classical cyclic di-GMP signaling network; our result provides the first evidence that this enzyme class can make alternative cyclic dinucleotides to cyclic di-GMP (Berkeley news story). We are continuing to identify molecular components of the cAG signaling pathway and to understand its role in how bacteria like Geobacter sense and adapt to different kinds of surfaces. (ii) Mammalian cGAMP signaling: The enzyme cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) was discovered to be the innate immune sensor for cytosolic DNA, which may result from microbial infection or other pathophysiological conditions. Upon binding double-stranded DNA, cGAS produces the signaling molecule cGAMP, which activates the receptor protein, stimulator of interferon genes (STING). In collaboration with Russell Vance (UC Berkeley), we proved the chemical structure of cGAMP had a noncanonical 2'-5' linkage by NMR. We recently developed a biosensor-based platereader assay to quantitate cGAMP levels in DNA-stimulated mammalian cell lysates. (iii) Other cyclic dinucleotide signaling: We have analyzed the activity of cyclic di-GMP and cyclic di-AMP signaling enzymes using in vivo biosensor assays. For example, we have demonstrated that archaeal enzymes produce cyclic di-AMP. This result completed the set of experimental evidence that cyclic dinucleotide signaling extends to all three domains of life. cAG Signaling Papers:PNAS 2015, Cell Reports 2015, PNAS 2016 cGAMP Signaling Papers:Cell Reports 2013, Cell Chem Biol 2016 Other CDN Biosensor Papers:JACS 2013a, JACS 2015, NAR 2016, ACS Chem Bio 2018 Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020Salt Lake City, UT 84112801-581-6681 Stay in Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U 2021 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 6/3/21
