Jennifer S. Shumaker-Parry - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science SearchReveal Menu News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC GRADUATE RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM Seminars Fall 2021 SPRING 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Donors Alumni Curie Club Newsletter Faraday Lectures Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Contact Us Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Hygiene Plan (Safety Manual) Emergency Evacuation Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living in Utah Graduate Student Resources ChemSAC Seminars Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Events Calandar Archive Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Diversity About Demographics Get Involved Directory Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations Contact Us Home Directory Current Page: Jennifer S. Shumaker-Parry Jennifer S. Shumaker-Parry ANALYTICAL, MATERIALS & PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY Professor B.S. University of South Dakota, 1995Ph.D. University of Washington, 2002NSF Mathematical and Physical Sciences Distinguished International Postdoctoral Research Fellow (MPS-DRF), Max Planck Institute for Polymer Research, Mainz, Germany, 2003-2004 Phone: (801) 585-1434Office: 2424 TBBCEmail: shumaker-parry@chem.utah.eduResearch Group Website Activities Jennifer Shumaker-Parry is a member of:Interfacial and Bioanalytical Chemistry (IBAC) and the Nano Institute of Utah. Awards R.W. Parry Teaching Award, 2016 NSF CAREER Award, 2009 ACS PROGRESS/Dreyfus Lectureship, 2008 ADVANCE Young Scientist Lecturer, University of Arizona, 2008 NSF MPS Distinguished International Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, 2003 National Science Foundation Integrative Graduate Education and Research Training (IGERT) Fellowship, 2000 Phi Beta Kappa, 1994 Research Interests Overview We investigate the optical, catalytic, and surface chemistry properties of nanomaterials for a wide range of applications. The fundamental understanding gained from our research impacts many areas of science and engineering, include micro- and nano-scale device fabrication, nano-scale imaging, nanolithography, catalysis, light-matter interactions, and sensor development. The broad nature of the multi-disciplinary research requires methods and tools from analytical chemistry, surface chemistry, biochemistry, materials science, nano\microfabrication, optics, spectroscopy, and microscopy. We regular interface with scientists and engineers outside of the Chemistry Department through collaborations and the use of scientific instruments. Designer plasmonic systems with tunable optical properties We are developing novel, broadly-applicable methods to tailor and exploit the optical properties of metal structures and nanoparticles in order to develop tunable sensing and spectroscopy platforms. The designer plasmon-active systems have unique optical properties that may be tailored through control of individual structure fabrication and spatially-controlled surface chemistry. The research approaches focus on the fabrication and optical characterization of well-defined, irregularly-shaped metal structures and the development of spatially-controlled surface functionalization methods to build multi-particle assemblies. The long term goal is to use the fundamental understanding of the correlation of optical properties with metal structure shape and assembly as a basis for tailoring the plasmonic systems for sensing and spectroscopy applications. Synthesis, interfacial chemistry, and catalytic activity of metal nanoparticles and support materials for heterogenous catalysis Exploration of different synthetic methods has led to new approaches for nanoparticle stabilization, flexible surface chemistry, and control over assembly and stability in different solvent environments. We have developed synthetic approaches based on novel reducing agents that serve dual roles and provide control of the properties of the materials.Thesurface chemistry, catalytic activity and opticalproperties of these materials are being studied.These studies include combining the nanoparticles withsilica nanoparticlesand synthetic nanodiamond as support materials for heterogeneous catalysis applications. We are studying the functionalization of nanodiamond and silica supports with polymer brushes to control the local environment of nanoparticle and molecular catalysts. Selected Publications *Indicates undergraduate co-author Parker, D.M.; Lineweaver, A.J.; Quast, A.D.; Zharov, I.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S. Thiol-terminated Nanodiamond Powders for Support of Gold Nanoparticle Catalysts, Diamond and Related Materials (2021) 116: 108449. Maekawa, H.; Drobnyh, E.; Lancaster, C.A.; Large, N.; Schatz, G.C.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S.; Sukharev, M.; Ge, N.-H., Wavelength and Polarization Dependence of Second Harmonic Responses from Gold Nanocrescent Arrays, ACS Photonics (2020) 124: 20424-20435. Stevenson, P.R.; Du, M.; Cherqui, C.; Bourgeois, M.R.; Rodriguez, K.; Neff, J.R.; Abreu, E.; *Meiler, I.; Tamma, V.A.; Apkarian, V.A.; Schatz, G.C.; Yuen-Zhou, J.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., "Active Plasmonics and Active Chiral Plasmonics Through Orientation-Dependent Multipolar Interactions," ACS Nano (2020) 14: 1158-11532. Lancaster, C.; *Scholl, W.; *Ticknor, M.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Uniting Top-down and Bottom-up Strategies Using Fabricated Nanostructures as Hosts for Synthesis of Nanomites,J. Phys. Chem. C(2020) 124:6822-6829. Bornstein, M.F.; Parker, D.M.; Quast, A.D.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S.; Zharov, I., Reaction Conditions-Dependent Formation of Catalytically Active Palladium Complexes or Palladium Nanoparticles on a Silica Support,ChemCatChem, (2019) 11:4360-4367. Swartz, M.M.; Rodriguez, M.; Cooper, C.T.; Blair, S.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Aluminum Nanocrescent Plasmonic Antennas Fabricated by Copper Mask Nanosphere Template Lithography,J.Phys. Chem. C(2016) 120:20597-20603. Invited contribution for the Richard P. Van Duyne Fetschrift special issue. Quast, A.; Bornstein, M.; *Greydanus, B.J.; Zharov, I.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Robust Polymer-coated Diamond Supports for Noble Metal Nanoparticle Catalysts,ACS Catalysis(2016) 6:4729-4738. Park, J.-W.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Structural Study of Citrate Layers on Gold Nanoparticles: Role of Intermolecular Interactions in Stabilizing Particles,J. Am. Chem. Soc.(2014) 136:1907-1921. Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020Salt Lake City, UT 84112801-581-6681 Stay in Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U 2021 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Last Updated: 7/15/21
