Omar Faruk Emon, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Omar Faruk Emon, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact OEmon@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4259 Echlin 119A For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, The University of Akron B.S., Mechanical Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology About Omar Dr. Emon has expertise in additive manufacturing technologies. His research focuses on additive manufacturing of smart polymers, printed electronics, and 3D bioprinting. He developed additive manufacturing systems to print functional polymers. He is also investigating 3D printing solutions for biomedical applications. Dr. Emon joined the University of New Haven in 2021. Prior to that, he worked at the Cornell University in Ithaca, NY as academic support staff. At Cornell, he supported graduate and undergraduate research projects in the Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering. In addition to mentoring the students, he also managed a design lab at Cornell BME. As part of his doctoral research, Dr. Emon developed a 3D printed stretchable pressure sensor. He developed a pressure-sensitive material by incorporating ionic liquid into stretchable polymers. He also constructed a multi-material 3D printing system by integrating motorized stages and dispensing system. Next, he used that extrusion-based printing system to 3D print the pressure sensor. He explored the area of 3D printed smart-tires and smart-insoles with embedded pressure sensors. He won the Monte Jade Innovation Competition 2019 with his proposal on '3D Printed Smart Tires with Piezoelectric Strain Sensors' in the future tire category. Publications Dilibal, S.; Sahin, H.; Owusu-Danquah, J.S.; Emon, M.O.F.; Choi, J.W., 2021, Additively Manufactured Custom Soft Gripper with Embedded Soft Force Sensors for an Industrial Robot, Int. J. Precis. Eng. Manuf., Vol. 22, Iss. 4, pp. 709718 Kim, M.; Philip, D.G.; Emon, M.O.F.; Choi, J.W., 2021, Effects of Hardness on the Sensitivity and Load Capacity of 3D Printed Sensor, Int. J. Precis. Eng. Manuf., Vol. 22, Iss. 3, pp. 483494 Alarmdari, A.; Lee, J.; Kim, M.; Emon, M.O.F.; Dhinojwala, A.; Choi, J.W., 2020, Effects of Surface Energy Reducing Agents on Adhesion Force in Liquid Bridge Microstereolithography, Additive Manufacturing, Vol. 36, pp. 101522 Emon, M.O.F.; Alkadi, F.; Philip, D.; Kim, D.H.; Lee, K.C.; Choi, J.W., 2019, Multi-material 3D Printing of a soft Pressure Sensor, Additive Manufacturing, Vol. 28, pp. 629-638 Emon, M.O.F.; Lee, J.; Choi, U.H.; Kim, D.H.; Lee, K.C.; Choi, J.W., 2019, Characterization of a Soft Pressure Sensor on the basis of Ionic Liquid Concentration and Thickness of the Piezoresistive Layer, IEEE Sensors Journal, Vol. 19, Iss. 15, pp. 6076-6084 Lee, J.; Lu, Y.F.; Kashyap, S.; Alarmdari, A.; Emon, M.O.F.; Choi, J.W., 2018, Liquid bridge microstereolithography, Additive Manufacturing, Vol. 21, pp. 76-83 Emon, M.O.F.; Choi, J.W., 2017, Flexible Piezoresistive Sensors Embedded in 3D Printed Tires, Sensors, Vol. 17, Iss. 3, pp. 656 Lee, J.; Emon, M.O.F.; Vatani, M.; Choi, J.W., 2017, Effect of degree of crosslinking and polymerization of 3D printable polymer/ionic liquid composites on performance of stretchable piezoresistive sensors, Smart Materials and Structures, Vol. 26, Iss. 3, pp. 035043 Emon, M.O.F.; Choi, J.W., 2017, A Preliminary study on 3D Printed Insoles with Stretchable Piezoresistive Sensors for Plantar Pressure Monitoring, Nov. 3-9, Tampa, FL, Paper No.: IMECE2017-71817 Lu, Y.; Kashyap, S.; Emon, M.O.F.; Lee, J.; Choi, J.W., 2017, Development and Characterizations of Liquid Bridge Based Microstereolithography (LBMSL) System, June 4-8, LA, CA, Paper No.: MSEC20172731 See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Also of Interest:Mohsen Sarraf, Ph.D.Douglas Ficek, Ph.D.Eric Dieckman, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
