Amir Esmailpour, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Amir Esmailpour, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact AEsmailpour@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4258 Echlin Hall 203 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Postdoctoral Fellow (PDF), department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada - 2011 PhD, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, University of Guelph, Canada - 2010 Master of Applied Science, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Networks, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada - 2006 Bachelor of Science with Honors, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada - 2000 Diploma in Network Security, Willis Pompea College of Business & Technology, Ottawa, Canada - 2002 Microsoft Certified System Engineer (MCSE) for Windows Network Operating System - 2002 Cisco Certified Network Administrator (CCNA) Program, CCIE candidate - 2002 Nortel Certified for Synchronized Optical Networks Administrator (SONET) - 2000 About Amir Dr. Amir Esmailpour is an assistant professor in the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science (ECECS) at the University of New Haven, where he teaches computer and networking courses, while conducting research on the 4thGeneration (4G) of wireless networks such as Long Term Evolution (LTE) and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX). Before coming to the University of New Haven, Dr. Esmailpour was a postdoctoral fellow at the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the University of Toronto, Canada. He received his Ph.D. from the faculty of Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Guelph, Canada, and his Master's and Bachelor's degrees from Ryerson University, Toronto, and University of Ottawa, Ottawa, respectively, both located in Canada. Dr. Esmailpour has several years of experience in research and teaching at universities across Canada and the U.S. Prior to returning to academic work, he also had several years of experience in industry, working for companies such as Nortel Networks and Daimler Chrysler. Dr. Esmailpour has published several papers in reputable publications such as IEEE journals, magazines, and conferences. He has also reviewed more than 100 papers in the same journals and conferences. He has received several Canadian national, provincial and industrial awards and scholarships during his academic and professional careers, such as a grant from Canada's prestigious NSERC. In addition to his university education, he also holds several industrial certifications such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco Systems, and Nortel Networks certifications. Dr. Esmailpour's research interests include various areas of networking and wireless communication, such as next generation of wireless networks, LTE, WiMAX radio resource management, quality of service, and routing. He also has strong industrial affiliations with companies such as Ericsson, Cisco, and RIM. See More See Less Research My research interests are twofold: Networking/Wireless and Cloud Computing/Big Data. On the networking side, my focus is in different areas of wired and wireless networking, with special interest in Routing, Radio Resource Management (RRM), Quality of Service (QoS) Provisioning, Security, and Performance Evaluation of communication networks, protocols and algorithms. My students and I have special interest in wireless networks such as Wireless LAN (the IEEE 802.11ac/ad standard), WiMAX (the IEEE 802.16m standard), the 3GPP Long Term Evolution advanced (LTE-a), and we are working towards fifth generation (5G) of wireless mobile networks. Development and implementations are performed on several layers of TCP/IP stack such as Transport, Network, MAC, and cross-layer design. We have recently proposed new methods to integrate wireless networks from different technologies, and transmit the QoS from one network to the next seamlessly over a vertical hand-off. In another project, we have investigated the performance of wireless networks in presence and absence of Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV) solutions, controlled from a central Cloud Radio Access Network (C-RAN). On the Cloud Computing and Big Data side, I along with my research students in the University of New Haven Could Computing and Big Data Research Group (DiSC) are interested in various applications of cloud computing and big data analytics, more specifically networking related applications. We are engaged in research and development of applications and network infrastructure that could potentially enhance performance of data centers hosting cloud computing and big data applications. We have proposed a new hybrid infrastructure for data center networking that combines electrical and optical connections using optical switches in aggregation layer. We have shown by simulation that such solution enhances data center performance. In another study, using big data analytics, we have proposed a predictive method to forecast energy consumption for states across the US that could significantly reduce energy over-generation and waste of generated power. This solution could potentially enhance power plant operation. Our research contributes to the broader area covered by the research community in future of data science fields. It will also prepare a cohort of researchers and technicians who contribute to cloud computing and big data research, while integrating research and education. 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE-a) WiMAX Networks (the IEEE 802.16m) Internet of Things (IoT, Mobile Ad-hoc Networks, Wireless Sensor Networks) Heterogeneous Wireless Data Networks All-IP 5th Generation (5G) of Wireless Networks Radio Resource Management and QoS for 4G wireless technologies Wireless Networks System Integration: WLAN and LTE networks, or Wireless Sensor and Cellular networks Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV) for 5G Cloud computing, Cloud Radio Access Networks (CloudRAN) Data Center optical versus electrical architecture Data science and predictive analysis using Big Data Analytics Publications Journal Papers G. Yang, Y. Cao, A. Esmailpour, and D. Wang "An SDN-based Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering Algorithm for Interference Mitigation in Ultra-Dense Small Cell Networks" accepted to appear in the Wiley International Journal of Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute "ETRI", (2019). A. Esmailpour. "Unified cloud-based QoS management for wireless NGN". Submitted to IEEE communication magazine. (2017) [in revision] A. Saeed and A. Esmailpour. "QoS Class Mapping and Scheduling Scheme for Converged LTE-WiFi in the Next Generation Networks. Accepted to appear in Inderscience International Journal of Communication Networks and Distributed Systems (2018) G. Yang, A. Esmailpour, Y. Cao, and D. Wang. "A Hierarchical Clustering Algorithm for Interference Mitigation in Ultra-Dense Small Cell Networks". Submitted to IEEE Vehicular Journal of Wireless Networks (2018) [in revision] A. Al-Shaikhli, and A. Esmailpour. Quality of Service Internetworking over Heterogeneous Environment in the Next Generation Networks. Submitted to Elsevier Journal of networks and computer applications (2018) [in revision] M. A. Ali, A. Esmailpour, J. Marcus. "Capacity Evaluation for LTE Applications Considering Queue Overflow". Submitted to IEEE Transaction on Wireless Communications (2017) [in revision] Rahman, M. N. and Esmailpour, A." A Hybrid Data Center Architecture for Big Data ". Elsevier International journal of Big Data Research, pages: 29-40 (v3), 2016. A. Esmailpour "Interoperability among 5G wireless network technologies in a testbed environment". Springer Journal of Wireless Information Networks, 23(2) pages: 151-161, 2016. Rahman, M. N. and Esmailpour, A. and Zhao, J." Machine Learning with Big Data: An Efficient Electricity Generation Forecasting System". Elsevier International journal of Big Data Research, 2016. Siwach G. and Esmailpour, A. "An Enriched Ciphering Method to Evaluate Performance of EEA2-algorithm for LTE Security". Transactions on Networks and Communications, Society for Science and Education, United Kingdom, 3(2) page 77-91, April 2015. Nasser, N., Miller, R., Esmailpour, A., Taha, A.-E. M. and Bejaoui, T. (2014), Optimized bandwidth allocation in broadband wireless access networks. Wiley journal of Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, May 2014. doi: 10.1002/wcm.2479 A. Esmailpour, V. Knezevic, and M. Gracias, and Gelareh Kokabian, "Integration of 4G Wireless Technologies in a Test-bed Environment," Published in The International Journal of Wireless & Mobile Networks (IJWMN), 05(01), 93 - 106", 2013 A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser, "A Framework for the Quality of Service Support in WiMAX Networks". Published in The IEEE Transaction on Vehicular Technologies, 60(1): 2690-2700 (2011) A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser, "Efficient Routing System for Wireless Mesh Networks using an ad-hoc Alternative Path." The Wiley International Journal of Communication Systems (IJCS - 2011). A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser, T. Taleb. "Topological based Architecture for Wireless Mesh Networks." The IEEE Wireless Communication Magazine, 18(1): 74-81 (2010) Conference Papers Shashikumar, A., Ausseil, R., Gedik, R., Esmailpour, A., Daniel, R., A Predictive Modeling on Safety Management Systems Lifecycle Effectiveness in the United Airlines (UA), accepted to appear in 49th Annual Meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute, November 17-19, 2018, Chicago, IL, USA. Ashwitha T. Shashikumar1 and Amir Esmailpour, "Integration of SDN and NFV with 5G Networks". Submitted to IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference.15-18 April 2019 // Marrakech, Morocco Zhu, Yilan, Zhao, Junhui, Esmailpour, Amir, Rahman, Naimur and Yang, Jindong, "Day-Ahead Hourly Load Forecasting by Machine Learning with Big Data", Proceedings of 7th International Conference on Renewable Power Generation, Copenhagen, Denmark, Sept. 2018 M. A. Ali, A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser. "Traffic Density Based Adaptive QoS Classes Mapping for Integrated LTE-WiMAX 5G Networks". IEEE International Conference on Communications (IEEE-ICC 2017), May 2017, Paris, France. G. Yang, A. Esmailpour, Y. Cao, and N. Nasser. "A Novel Coalitional Structure Generation Algorithm for Interference Mitigation in Small Cell Networks". IEEE Global Communications Conference (IEEE GLOBECOM 2016), December 2016 Washington, DC. USA A. Al-Shaikhli, A. Esmailpour, and N. Nasser. Quality of Service Interworking over Heterogeneous Networks in 5G. IEEE International Conference on Communications (IEEE-ICC 2016), May 2016, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia M. A. Ali, A. Esmailpour, J. Marcus. "Performance Evaluation for LTE Applications with Buffer Awareness Consideration". IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC-2016). April 2016, Doha, Qatar, A. Saeed, A. Esmailpour, and N. Nasser. "Performance Comparison for the QoS Measurements in LTE and WiFi". IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC-2016). April 2016, Doha, Qatar, Joswill V. P. Rodriguez and Amir Esmailpour. "'Integrated QoS provisioning for unified LTE-WiMAX networks'". International Conference on Computing, Networking and Communication (ICNC-2016), co-sponsored by IEEE Computer Society, in Hawaii, USA, Feb. 2016. Alaa Al-Shaikhli and Amir Esmailpour. "Quality of Service Management in 5G Broadband Converged Networks" The 36th IEEE Sarnoff Symposium September 2015 in New Jersey, USA Rahman, M. N. and Esmailpour, A." A Hybrid Network Architecture for Data Centers". The IEEE International Conference on Big Data Computing service and Applications (the IEEE BigDataService 2015) Rahman, M. N. and Esmailpour, A." An Efficient Electricity Generation Forecasting System Using Artificial Neural Network Approach with Big Data". The IEEE International Conference on Big Data Computing service and Applications (the IEEE BigDataService 2015) Gelareh Kokabian and Amir Esmailpour. "An Enhanced Cooperative Spectrum Sensing Method for LTE Networks to find required spectrum on TV White spaces". Submitted to the IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC 2016). Rahman, M. N. and Esmailpour, A."A Hybrid Electrical and Optical Networking Topology of Data Center for Big Data Network". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2014), 5 pages, April 2014. Balasubramanian S. K. and Esmailpour, A. "Hadoop Framework to provide Fault Tolerance in Big Data Clusters". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2014), April 2014. Zhou Y. and Esmailpour, A. "Improvements in Big Data Hadoop with hybrid efficiency methods". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2014), 4 pages, April 2014. Siwach G. and Esmailpour, A. "Encrypted Search and Cluster Formation in Big Data". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2014), 14 pages, April 2014. Gelareh Kokabian and Amir Esmailpour. "Cooperative Spectrum Sensing in LTE Networks". The IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2014 (CCECE 2014). Joswill V. P. Rodriguez and Amir Esmailpour. "Unified provisioning solution for heterogeneous wireless networks". The IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2014(CCECE 2014). Gautam Siwach and Amir Esmailpour. "LTE Security Potential Vulnerability and Algorithm Enhancements". The IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2014 (CCECE 2014). A. Esmailpour, S. Salehi, and N. Safavi. "Quality of Service Differentiation Measurements in 4G Networks", Proceedings of the Wireless Telecommunications Symposium (WTS-2013), 17-19 April 2013. Pages 1 5. Phoenix, AZ, USA, 2013 A. Esmailpour, M. Alfaraj, J. Alfaraj, and G. Kokabian. "Energy Conservation for Wireless Sensor Networks Using Solar Rechargeable Power Source". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2013), 10 pages, March 14-16, 2013 M. Solanki, S. Salehi, and A. Esmailpour. "LTE Security: Encryption Algorithm Enhancements". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2013), 9 pages, March 14-16, 2013. J. K. R. Burugulla, A. Deep, N. Safavi, and A. Esmailpour. "Overview of WiMAX Technology Security and Quality of Service Schemes". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2013), March 14-16, 2013. S. Gurjar, J. K. R. Burugulla, K. P. Tummalapalli, and A. Esmailpour." Advances in the 5th Generation (5G) of Wireless Network Technologies". The American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE-NE2013), March 14-16, 2013 S. Patel, J. Rajput, A. Para, N. Safavi, and A. Esmailpour. "A Comparative Study between the 4G Wireless Technologies Capabilities in terms of QoS and Security measures". The American Society for Engineering Education, Northeast Section Conference, ASEE-NE-2012 N. Safavi , A. Para and A. Esmailpour. "A Quality of Service Scheme for LTE Networks". The American Society for Engineering Education, Northeast Section Conference, ASEE-NE-2012 A. Esmailpour. "Quality of Service Support in Unified 4G Networks". The eight International conference on IT Innovation 2012, Al Ain, UAE. IIT'12 E. Doulatyari, P. A. Kohan, and A. Esmailpour."Quality of Service Support for a WiFi-WiMAX Network in a Test-bed Env.". Eight International conference on IT Innovation, Al Ain, UAE. IIT'12 A. Esmailpour, Moataz Alfaraj, and Jamal Alfaraj. "Energy Conservation for Wireless Sensor Networks Using Solar Rechargeable Power Source", Submitted to Seventh IEEE International Workshop on Practical Issues in Building Sensor Network Applications (IEEE SenseApp 2012) A. Esmailpour, "Tutorial on The Evolution of the 4th Generation of Wireless Network Technologies," The eight International conference on IT Innovation 2012, Al Ain, UAE. IIT'12 N. Nasser, R. Miller, A. Esmailpour. "Optimal Utility-Based Bandwidth Allocation in WiMAX Networks," The International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference (IWCMC 2011) pp: 540-545. M. Gracias, V. Knezevic, and A. Esmailpour, "Interoperability between WiMAX and WiFi in a Testbed Environment," The 24th IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering (CCECE 2011).pp 1144-1149 A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser, "A Novel Scheme for Packet Scheduling and Bandwidth Allocation in WiMAX Networks." The IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC-2011). Pp1-5 A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser. "Quantifying Quality of Service Differentiation for WiMAX Networks." International Conference on Multimedia Computing and Information Technology (MCIT-2010). pp. 121 - 124 A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser, "Packet Scheduling Scheme with Quality of Service Support for Mobile WiMAX Networks." The 34th IEEE Conference on Local Computer Networks (LCN 2009), Zrich, Switzerland, Oct 2009. pp 1040-1045 A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser, and Bahram Z. Azami, "A Cross-Layer Design Solution for Performance Improvement of Wireless Ad-Hoc Networks," Proceedings of Int. Conference on Electrical and Electronic Engineering (ICEE), Tehran, Iran, May 2008. Pp 145-151 A. Esmailpour, M. Jaseemuddin, N. Nasser, and O. Bazan. "Ad-hoc Path: an Alternative to Backbone for Wireless Mesh Networks." Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC-2007), Glasgow, U.K., June 2007. Pp: 3752-3757 A. Esmailpour, N. Nasser. "Throughput Improvement for Wireless Mobile Ad-hoc Networks." Proceedings of Int. Conference on Electrical and Electronic Engineering (ICEE), Tehran, Iran, summer 2007. Pp. 97-101. J. Wu, M. Jaseemuddin, and A. Esmailpour. "Integrating UMTS and Ad Hoc Networks." Proceedings of IEEE Int. Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing, Networking and Communications (WiMob 2006), Montreal, Canada, August, 2006. Pp. 196 - 204 M. Jaseemuddin, A. Esmailpour, A. Alwan, and O. Bazan. "Integrated Routing System for Wireless Mesh Networks." Proceedings of IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering (CCECE), Ottawa, May 2006. 1003 - 1007 Industrial Research Papers Amir Esmailpour, "IP Traffic Patterns, Characterization, and TCP/IP behavior," Nortel Networks publications Amir Esmailpour, Jenny McCloskey, DEN and Policy based Networking; directory enabled networking," Nortel Networks publications Amir Esmailpour, Michael Reece. "10Gbps Ethernet solution for Long haul and Metropolitanapplications." Nortel Networks publications19. Joswill V. P. Rodriguez and Amir Esmailpour. "Unified provisioning solution for heterogeneous wireless networks". The IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2014(CCECE 2014). Michael Reece, Amir Esmailpour. "A comparison between Mesh Versus Ring Restoration." Nortel Networks publications Amir Esmailpour, Jenny McCloskey. "ISP POP Architecture: An overview of common POP architecturesemployed by major ISPs worldwide (ATM versus IP based architectures)." Nortel Networks publications Courses Taught Dr. Esmailpour teaches the following courses. The first list is his specialization in the past few years and frequently taught. The next two lists are other computer science and mathematics courses of interests. Specialized and Recently Taught Courses Advanced Wireless Communications and Networking Fundamentals of Networking (OSI and TCP/IP layers) Advanced Networking I (Layer 2 Switching Technologies) Advanced Networking II (Layer 3 Routing Technologies) C/C++ Programming Language Wired and Wireless Network Security Servers (Mail, Web, File, Security, AAA, Proxy, Active Directory) using different platforms (Microsoft Windows 2000-2008 and Linux Servers) Cisco Routing and Switching Linux Administration Fiber Optics and SONET technology Fundamentals of Computer Hardware and Software Other Computer Science Courses Introduction to Computer Science and Computer Organizations Computer Programming Language (C/C++/Java) Data structures Introduction to Software Engineering Computer Architecture Operating Systems Computer Simulation and Modeling Databases and Database Management System Logic Design of Digital Systems Introduction to Algorithms and Complexity Introduction to Human Computer Interactions Mathematics Courses Calculus Algebra Differential Equations Mathematic Logics Discrete Mathematics Probability and statistics See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Cybersecurity and Networks, B.S. Computer Science, B.S. Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. Computer Science, M.S. In the Media The Daily Orange: 5G could revitalize Syracuse Amir Esmailpour, assistant professor of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, explains the differences between 3G, 4G, and 5G while speaking of the major change 5G will bring. Also of Interest:Computer Science Faculty & StaffNikolas Stasulli, Ph.D.Bradley Woodworth, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
