Nadiye O. Erdil, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Nadiye O. Erdil, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Industrial and Systems Engineering Undergraduate Coordinator, Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Engineering and Applied Science Education Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact NErdil@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7251 Echlin 104 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, State University of New York at Binghamton M.Sc., Industrial Engineering, State University of New York at Binghamton B.Sc., Computer Engineering, Bogazii University, Istanbul, Turkey About Nadiye Research Interests Applications of Lean Practices, Statistical Analysis, and Simulation Modeling and Analysis in healthcare and manufacturing systems. Her primary focus is on the use of information technology, quality and productivity improvement, and design and implementation of quality management systems in healthcare delivery operations. Teaching Interests Quality Management, Statistical Quality Control, Engineering Economics, Project Management, Modeling and Simulation, Engineering Statistics, Introduction to Engineering. Professional Societies Institute of Industrial Engineers, MemberIIE Council of Industrial Engineering Academic Department Heads, MemberAmerican Society for Engineering Education, MemberEngineers without Borders, Turkey, Co-founder & Vice President Alpha Pi Mu - Industrial Engineering Honor Society, Member Selected Publications Nadiye O. Erdil, "Developing Introductory Engineering Courses to Increase Student Interest and Engagement in Engineering", Women in Industrial Engineering Academia 2012, Istanbul, Turkey, June 2012Nadiye O. Erdil and C. Robert Emerson, "Simulation Modeling of Electronic Health Records Adoption in the U.S. Healthcare System", in Proceedings of the 27th International Conference of the System Dynamics Society, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA, July 2009Nadiye O. Erdil and C. Robert Emerson, "Analysis of Electronic Health Record Adoption in the U.S. Healthcare System", in Proceedings of AMIA 2009 Spring Congress, Orlando, Florida, USA, May 2009Nadiye O. Erdil and C. Robert Emerson, "Modeling the Dynamics of Electronic Health Records Adoption in the U.S. Healthcare System" in Proceedings of the 26th International Conference of the System Dynamics Society, Athens, Greece, July 2008Nadiye O. Erdil and Koenraad E. Gieskes, "An Evaluation of a Learning Community Program For Freshman Engineering Students" in 2008 ASEE Zone I Student Papers Proceedings, West Point, New York, USA, March 2008 Courses Taught At Previous Institutions Introduction to Engineering Elementary Product and Process Design Project Management Cost Estimating for Engineers Engineering Economics Analysis Principles of Systems Engineering See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Industrial Systems Engineering, B.S. Engineering & Operations Management, M.S. Industrial Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department of Engineering and Applied Science Education Also of Interest:R. Christopher O'Brien, Ph.D.Ravi Gorthala, Ph.D."A Framework for Risk Assessment in Oil and... University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
