Pauline Schwartz, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Pauline Schwartz, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact PSchwartz@newhaven.edu For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Medicinal Chemistry, University of Michigan, 1975 M.S. in Medicinal Chemistry, University of Michigan, 1971 B.S. in Chemistry, Drexel University, 1970 (Magna cum Laude) Philadelphia High School for Girls, 1965 About Pauline Research Interests I am conducting research to design and explore novel computational models of chemical systems. With my primary collaborator, Dr. Carl Barratt and several bright undergraduate students, I have been devising chemical models based on mathematical paradoxes as a means of revealing novel molecular mechanisms with applications to chemistry, biology and chemical engineering. These projects have resulted in several publications and student presentations; several grant applications are being directed to support our research. Our recent studies have addressed an unanswered question in chemistry: How did chemical systems evolve to give the necessary precursors for life on Earth and, perhaps, elsewhere? We have found simple chemical systems that generate nonlinear kinetic relationships where symmetry is broken at defined fixed temperature conditions. Other studies have highlighted the role of thermal cycling in the replication of dsRNA and have addressed the emergence of complex metabolic pathways on the early Earth. These studies are making an important impact on understanding prebiotic chemistry and are providing the basis for directing experimental approaches to better understand the chemical evolution of life. Special Topics Computational Chemistry (with Dr. D. Xiao) Origins of the Universe and Life (Honors with Dr. M. OConnor) Emerging Infectious Diseases (Honors with Dr. C. Vigue) University Service and Awards Recent University Committees Faculty Senate, Senator representing Tagliatela College of Engineering - 2012 - present Faculty Affairs Committee, Member, 2016 - present University of New Haven Honors Committee, Member, 2007 - present University Institutional Review Board, Member, - 2003-Current Department of Chemistry & Chemical Engineering, Chair 2009-2012 University Information Technology Advisory Committee, Member and Chair, - 2003-2010 Recent Awards and Honors University of New HavenAward for Excellence in Teaching with Technology May, 2014 University Research Scholar 2007 - 2013 Visiting Associate Professor of Dermatology at Yale University - 2003 present University of New HavenAward for Excellence in Teaching May, 2009 University of New Haven Center for Experiential Education 2009 LEARN Award for Excellence for Faculty Mentored Undergraduate Research National Experiential Education Certification, 2008 See More See Less Recent Publications Multiple Choice Testing Using Immediate Feedback Assessment Technique (IF AT) Forms: Assessing Learning From Mistakes, Merrel, J.D., Cirillo, P.F., Schwartz, P.M. and Webb, J.A, Higher Education Studies, 5(5): 50-55, 2015. Analysis of a Chemical Model System Leading To Chiral Symmetry Breaking: Implications for the Evolution of Homochirality, Morneau, B.N., Kubala, J.M., Barratt, C. and Schwartz, P.M., J. Math. Chem., 52:268 282, 2014. DOI 10.1007/s10910-013-0261-5 iPads in the Science Laboratory: Experience in Designing and Implementing a Paperless Chemistry Laboratory Course, T.L. Hesser and P. M. Schwartz, Journal of STEM Education, 14(2): 5-9, 2013 Analysis of the Penney-Ante Game Using Difference Equations: Development of an Optimal and a Mixed-Strategies Protocol, Carl Barratt and Pauline M. Schwartz, Journal of Mathematics Research, 4(6): 1-11, 2012. Kinetic Models of the Prebiotic Replication of dsRNA under Thermal Cycling Conditions. Pauline M. Schwartz, Dante M. Lepore, and Carl Barratt, International Journal of Chemistry, 4(5): 9-15, 2012. Demonstrating Optical Activity Using an iPad. Pauline M. Schwartz, Dante M. Lepore, Brandy N. Morneau and Carl Barratt, Journal of Chemical Education, 88: 1692-1693, 2011. Computational Models of Chemical Systems Inspired by Braess Paradox, Dante M. Lepore, Carl Barratt, Pauline M. Schwartz, Journal of Mathematical Chemistry, 49: 356-370, 2011 Engaging Students in High-Content Lecture Courses with PowerPoint. P.M. Schwartz, University of New Haven, AIChE issue 2 Spring 2011 Computational Models of Thermal Cycling in Chemical Systems, C. Barratt, D. M. Lepore, M. J. Cherubini and P. M. Schwartz, International Journal of Chemistry, 2 (2): 19-27, 2010. Systems Chemistry and Parrondos Paradox: Computational Models of Thermal Cycling, Daniel C. Osipovitch, Carl Barratt, and Pauline M. Schwartz, New Journal of Chemistry, 33(10): 2022- 2027, 2009. Faculty-Mentored Student Research Activities The Chemical and Biochemical Models of Parrondos Paradox, at the ASBMB/FASEM Meeting New Orleans, LA (April, 2009), with D.C. Osipovitch. The Applications of Parrondos Paradox: The Development of Computational Models that Explore Novel Chemical Systems, at the CUR Posters-on-the-Hill, Washington, D.C. (May, 2009), with D.C. Osipovitch. The Computational Models of Chemical Systems Inspired by Braess Paradox, at the American Chemical Society - Regional Meeting, Hartford, CT (Oct., 2009), with D. M. Lepore, M. J. Cherubini. The Models of prebiotic replication of dsRNA through mineral catalysis under thermal cycling, at the CT Space Grant Fellowship (2010-2011), with D.M. Lepore. The Evolution of Homochirality in Chemical Model Systems, at the CT Space Grant Fellowship(2011-2012), with B.N. Morneau. The Evolution of Homochirality in a Chemical System, at the AbSciCon (Astrobiology Science Conference), Atlanta, GA ( April, 2012), with B.N. Moreau and J.M. Kubala. The Computational investigation of chemical evolution of metabolic systems in a prebiotic environment, at the American Chemical Society - Regional Meeting, NERM Oct., 2013, with J.Kubala, R. Doyle. Presentations and Reading The Last Lecture: Chemistrys Web, University of New Haven Faculty Awards Dinner, May 2015 International Conf. on Chemical Education, Toronto, Canada, July, 2014 - Teaching and Learning with iPads in the Chemistry Curriculum: Designing, Implementing and Assessing a Paperless Chemistry Lecture and Laboratory Course, P.M. Schwartz and T. L. Hesser Interview "Cosmic Perspectives" A. Poniros (WPKN) "THE ORIGINS OF LIFE ON EARTH & ELSEWHERE IN THE UNIVERSE" PMSchwartz and C. Barratt, May 2014 NERM Oct., 2013 Presentation: P. M. Schwartz, C. Barratt, J.Kubala and B. Morneau"Chemical Evolution of Life: Investigation of a Model System that Predicts Chiral Symmetry Breaking and Emergence of Homochirality." NERM Oct., 2013 Presentation: J.Kubala, R. Doyle, C. Barratt and P. M. Schwartz, Computational investigation of chemical evolution of metabolic systems in a prebiotic environment NERM Oct., 2013 Presentation: T. L. Hesser, P. M. Schwartz, iPads in the chemistry curriculum: Experience in designing and implementing an interactive lecture and paperless laboratory course Talk at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, March, 2013: P. M. Schwartz, Chemical Evolution: Investigations of Computational Models of Prebiotic Chemical Systems Interview To The Best of Our Knowledge (David Gustina, WAMC Public Radio) Oct., 2013. Astrobiology Series Courses Taught CHEM2201Organic Chemistry CHEM1115H-CHEM1116HHonors General Chemistry I and II CHEM4412Seminar CHEM6650Medicinal Chemistry (graduate) CHEM6655Pharmacology (graduate) See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemistry,B.S. Chemistry, M.S. Department of Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Also of Interest:Joel Marks, Ph.D.Ali Jafarian, Ph.D.Agamemnon Koutsospyros, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
