Eddie Luzik, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Eddie Luzik, Ph.D. Associate Professor Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Department Contact ELuzik@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7006 Echlin 113 For the Media Email Media Relations Education B.S. in Science Pennsylvania State University Ph.D. in Physical Organic Chemistry Bryn Mawr College Postdoctoral Research University of Toledo Postdoctoral Teaching Haverford College Sabbatical Research Yale University About Eddie Dr. Luzik joined the University of New Haven in January 2000. He specializes in teaching Organic Chemistry lecture and laboratory and Synthetic Chemistry. He has also taught Environmental Chemistry, CH600, and General Chemistry CH115&117 Lab. He is the contact person for operating and maintaining much of the departments instrumentation including the GCs, HPLCs, GC/MS, UV/vis, and XRD. Prior to teaching at the University of New Haven, he taught General and Environmental Chemistry courses at Haverford College, near Philadelphia, and Introductory Chemistry at Harrisburg Area Community College in Lebanon Pennsylvania. He also has worked in industry, quantitating organic substances in environmental samples using instrumental methods, an experience that contributes to his courses and research. Dr. Luziks research interests include studies of: the properties and the synthesis of substituted polycyclic aromatic molecules, fluorinated molecules, and green process chemistry. Extensive use of gas chromatography, mass spectroscopy, and ultra violet / visible spectroscopy instrumentation facilitates this work. Current research work is targeted at Green Chemistry and Organic Synthesis: experiments performed by undergraduate students in the laboratories at the University of New Haven are evaluating ozone friendly chemicals for replacement of chlorinated solvents used in chemical processes, screening catalysts for new reaction development, and building new chiral templates. Other projects include synthesis of polycyclic and olefinic aromatic molecules which often have useful optical properties; also, semi-organics synthesis for similar material-science properties and applications research. A selection of molecules from his portfolio of prior syntheses are depicted in the figure below. Applications driven studies of diffuse-sourced Biofuels have recently attracted much attention to his research group. Work on Bio-diesel production and evaluation is also progressing toward incorporating an educational component into the Organic Laboratory curriculum. With University of New Haven students he is pursuing development of new, modernized, low environmental impact and inherently safer educational laboratory experiments. The target is to allow University of New Haven undergraduates to fully utilize the departments renovated facilities and new instrumentation for a high quality educational experience. Dr. Luzik has helped design the recently renovated laboratory spaces at the University of New Haven, with the new Organic Lab providing a state of the art facility with each student work space outfitted comparably to a pharmaceutical or custom synthesis occupational scenario. He is also working to bring more extensive use of the departments Instrumentation into all of the chemistry lab curricula, and to teach Quality Assessment and Good Laboratory Practices methodology for University of New Haven students to be best prepared for their scientific careers. Personal interests include: mineralogy, art, figure skating, construction skills, and Chrysler vehicles. He is a member of the American Chemical Society: Division of Organic Chemistry and Division of Fluorine Chemistry, Sigma Xi The Research Society, the United States Figure Skating Association, and the New Haven Mineral Club. See More See Less Recent Publications Shuman, N.S.; Miller, T.M.; Viggiano, A.A.; Luzik, E.D. Jr.,; Hazari, N. "Kinetics of electron attachment to SF3CN, SF3C6F5, and SF3 and mutual neutralization of Ar+ with CN- and C6F5(-)."J Chem Phys.2011, 134(4).James D. Blakemore, Matthew J. Chalkley, Joy H. Farnaby, Louise M. Guard, Nilay Hazari, Christopher D. Incarvito, Eddie D. Luzik, Jr., and Hee Won Suh; "New Trans-Chelating N-Heterocyclic Carbene Ligands for Palladium" Organometallics, 2011, 30 (7), pp 18181829.Nicholas S. Shuman, Thomas M. Miller, Nilay Hazari, Eddie D. Luzik Jr., and A. A. Viggiano "Kinetics following addition of sulfur fluorides to a weakly ionized plasma from 300 K to 500 K: Rate constants and product determinations for ion-ion mutual neutralization and thermal electron attachment to SF5, SF3, and SF2-" Journal of Chemical Physics, 133, 234304, 2010.Khoo, Nai-Chuan; Sinha, Saion; Luzik, Eddie; Rivas-Cardona, Juan Alberto; "Simple inexpensive technique for the synthesis of Single-Walled Carbon Nanotube films by Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD)" Submitted.Sinha, Saion; Khoo, Nai-Chuan; Luzik, Eddie; "Proceedings from the International Conference on Thin Films" October, 2006. Gano, J. E.; Osborn, D. J.III.; Kodali, N.; Sekher, P.; Luzik, E. D.; Kodali, N. "Synthesis of Twist-twistPi-Conjugated Di-sec-alkyl Stilbenes and Stilbene Polymers", Journal of Organic Chemistry , 2003, 68, 3710-3713.Frank B. Mallory, Kelly E. Butler, Amelie Berube, Eddie D. Luzik Jr., Clelia W. Mallory, Emilie J. Brondyke, Rupa Hiremath, Phung Ngo, and Patrick J. Carrol. "Phenacenes: a family of graphite ribbons. Part 3: Iterative strategies for the synthesis of large phenacenes". Tetrahedron 2001, 57, 3715-3724.Mallory, F. B.; Luzik, E. D. et. al. "Nuclear Spin - Spin Coupling via Nonbonded Interactions-8. The Distance Dependence of Through-Space Fluorine-Fluorine Coupling", Journal of the American Chemical Society , 2000, 122(17), 4108-4116.OConnell, C.; Sekher, P.; Luzik, E. D.; Gano, J. E. "Thermochemical Studies of Twist-twist Pi Conjugated, Sterically Crowded Stilbenes Using Simultaneous TG-DTA", Thermochem. Acta, 1999, 340-414, 263-269.Gano, J. E.; Luzik, E. D.; Sekher, P. "1,4-Di(1,2-di-tert-butyl-2-phenyl ethynyl) benzene and Related Twist-twist Pi Conjugated Stilbene (PPV) Systems", Tetrahedron Letters, 1998, 39, 6641-6644.Sekher, P.; Gano, J. E.; Luzik, E. D. "Iodination of E-2,2,5,5,-tetramethyl-3,4-diphenylhex-3-ene: Catalytic Effects of Silver Triflate and Water in the I2/Ag2SO4 Iodination", Synthetic Communications,1997, 27, 3631-3636. Courses Taught CH 341 Synthetic Methods CH 201, CH 202, CH 203, CH 204Organic Chemistry Series See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemistry, B.S. Chemistry, M.S. Department of Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Also of Interest:Criminal Justice FacultyAlexandria Guzmn, Ph.D.David Harding, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
