Joseph A. Levert, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Joseph A. Levert, Ph.D. Associate Professor Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact JLevert@newhaven.edu (203) 932-1015 Echlin 107 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology M.S. in Mechanical Engineering, Arizona State University B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, Tulane University Professional Engineer, Mechanical, State of California About Joseph Joe joined the University of New Haven faculty in 2015. Previously he was an Associate Professor and the Mechanical Engineering Curriculum leader during his 11 years at the State University of New York Maritime College in the Bronx. While there, Joe also served as the College-wide Curriculum Committee chair for three years. Prior to the Maritime College, Joe had a diverse 16-year career in industry where he was awarded seven patents. Joe's research interests are in tribology (science of wear and friction), and he has a passion for design education. He collaborated in the founding of Project CREATE (Cultivating Resources for Employment with Assistive Technology) that enables student service-learning design experiences that benefit the disabled. Professional Memberships Society of Tribologists and Lubrication Engineers American Society of Engineering Education American Society of Mechanical Engineering See More See Less Selected Publications Levert, Joseph A., Grosso, Andy, "NYSIDs Project CREATE: An Organizational Model for Service Learning through Assistive Technology Development", American Society of Engineering Educators, Zone 1 Conference Proceedings, April, 2014. Levert, J.; Korach, C., "CMP Friction as a Function of Slurry Silica Nanoparticle Concentration and Diameter", STLE Tribology Transactions, Volume 52, Issue 2, Pages 256 261, 2009 DeBear, D.S.; Levert, J.A.; Mukherjee; S.P.; "Spin-Etch Planarization for Dual Damascene Interconnect Structures", Solid State Technology, March, 2000, PP 53-60. Levert, J.A.; Mukherjee; S.P.; DeBear, D.S.; Fury, M.; "A Novel Spin-Etch Planarization Process for Dual-Damascene Copper Interconnects" Interconnect and Contact Metallization for ULSI - Proceedings of The Electrochemical Society, Vol. 99-31, PP 162-173, (2000). Shan, L.; Levert, J.A.; Meade, L.; Tichy, J.; Danyluk, S.; "Interfacial Fluid Mechanics and Pressure Prediction in Chemical Mechanical Polishing", ASME Journal of Tribology, Vol. 122, July, 2000, PP 539-543. Received best paper award from ASME Tribology division. Levert, J.A.; Danyluk, S.; Tichy, J.; "Mechanism for Subambient Interfacial Pressures While Polishing with Liquids", ASME Journal of Tribology, Vol. 122, April, 2000, PP 450-457. Levert, J.A.; Baker R.; Mess, F.; Salant R.; Danyluk, S.; "Mechanisms of Chemical-Mechanical Polishing of SiO2Dielectric on Integrated Circuits", STLE Tribology Transactions, Vol. 41 (1998), 4, 593 - 599. Patents (US) 6,869,347; March 22, 2005; Koinkar, Collins, Costa, Levert; "Fabrication of devices with fibers engaged to grooves on substrates" 6,771,874; August 3, 2004; Levert, Talmadge; "Tension-assisted mounting of fibers on a substrate". 6,719,608; April 13, 2004; Koinkar, Costa, Collins, Levert; "Fabrication of devices with fibers engaged to grooves on substrates". 6,696,358; February 24, 2004; Mukherjee, Levert, DeBear; "Viscous protective overlayers for planarization of integrated circuits". 6,630,433; October 7, 2003; Zhang, Towery, Levert, Mukherjee; "Composition for chemical mechanical planarization of copper, tantalum and tantalum nitride". 6,600,229; July 29, 2003; Mukherjee, Levert, DeBear; "Planarizers for spin etch planarization of electronic components". 6,407,006; June 18, 2002; Levert, Towery, Endisch; "Method for integrated circuit planarization". See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Also of Interest:Anne Li Kringen, Ph.D.Alexandria Guzmn, Ph.D.Joseph Smolinski, M.F.A. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
