Junhui Zhao, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Junhui Zhao, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact JZhao@newhaven.edu (203) 932-1241 Maxcy Hall 120C For the Media Email Media Relations Education Wayne State University, Detroit, MIAug. 2009-Aug. 2014 Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering Chongqing University, Chongqing, China Sept. 2006-June 2009 M.Sc. in Power Electronics and Electric Drives Xian University of Technology, Xian, ChinaSept. 2002-June 2006 B.S. in Electrical Engineering About Junhui Dr. Junhui Zhao is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science at the University of New Haven. Before joining the University of New Haven, Dr. Zhao received the Ph.D. degree from Wayne State University, Detroit, MI in 2014 and M.S. degree from Chongqing University, Chongqing, China in 2009, both in Electrical Engineering. Dr. Zhao is active in academic and professional services and activities. He is a reviewer for top journals and conferences in his discipline. He has been serving as the VP/Secretary of Power Energy Society/Industry Application Society in IEEE Southeastern Michigan Section since 2012. He also has been serving the VP of Membership of North American Chinese Power Professional Association (NACPPA) since 2014. Dr. Zhao and his teammates received the Grand Prize and Smart Grid Category Prize in Michigan Clean Energy Venture Competition in 2012. Dr. Zhao's research interests include various areas of modelling and control of renewable/alternative energy systems, distributed generation sources, microgrid, smart grid, and power system stability. For more information, please visit the Renewable Energy and Smart Grid Lab. See More See Less Selected Publications Journal Papers B. Chen, H. Chen, Y. Zhang, J. Zhao, and E. Manla, "Risk Assessment for the Power Grid Dispatching Process Considering the Impact of Cyber Systems," Energies, vol. 12, No. 6, pp. 1084-1102, Mar. 2019. Y. Yang, B. Wei, H. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Zhao, and E. Manla, "Chaos Firefly Algorithm With Self-Adaptation Mutation Mechanism for Solving Large-Scale Economic Dispatch With Valve-Point Effects and Multiple Fuel Options," IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 45907-45922, Aug. 2018. S. Wang, W. Song, J. Ma, J. Zhao, and X. Feng, "Comprehensive Analysis and Compensation Scheme for the Line Current Distortion in Single-Phase Three-Level NPC Converters", IEEE Trans. Industrial Electronics, vol.65, no.3, pp. 2199-2211, Mar. 2018. S. Wang, W. Song, J. Zhao, and X. Feng, "A hybrid single-carrier-based PWM scheme for single phase three-level NPC grid-side converters in electric railway traction," IET Power Electronics, vol. 9, no. 13, pp. 2500-2509, 2016. J. Ma, W. Song, S. Jiao, J. Zhao and X. Feng, "Power Calculation for Direct Power Control of Single Phase Three Level Rectifiers Without Phase Lock Loop," IEEE Trans. Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, pp. 2871-2882, May 2016. M. N. Rahman, A. Esmailpour, and J. Zhao," Machine Learning with Big Data: An Efficient Electricity Generation Forecasting System", Elsevier International Journal of Big Data Research, Mar. 2016 B. Zhao, M. Xue, X. Zhang, C. Wang, J. Zhao, "An MAS based energy management system for a stand-alone microgrid at high altitude," Applied Energy, submitted, 2014. S. Alyami, Y. Wang, C. Wang, J. Zhao and B. Zhao, "Adaptive real power capping method for fair overvoltage regulation of distribution networks with high penetration of PV systems," IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, accepted, 2014. Y. Wang, C. Wang, F. Lin, W. Li, LY Wang, and J. Zhao, "Power system voltage stability analysis based on the concept of transfer impedance," International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems, Vol. 62, pp. 3844, Nov. 2014. J. Zhao, C. Wang, B. Zhao, F. Lin, Q. Zhou, and Y. Wang, "A review of active management for distribution networks: current status and future development trends," Electric Power Components and Systems, vol. 42, no. 3-4, pp. 1-14, 2014. J. Zhao, Y. L. Chen, Z. Chen, F. Lin, C. Wang and H. Zhang, "Modeling and control of discrete event systems using finite state machines with variables and their applications in power grids," Systems & Control Letters, vol. 61, no. 1, pp. 212-222, Jan. 2012. Conference Papers L. Xu, A. King, J. Zhao, and L. Miao "Distributed Drones for Power Line Inspection with Weighted Consensus Control in Dynamic Network Systems," IEEE 3rd International Electrical and Energy Conference, Beijing China, Sept. 2019. (Best Paper Award) D. Yu, J. Zeng, J. Zhao, J. Ning, "A Two-stage Four-port Inverter for Hybrid Renewable Energy System Integration," IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC), Mar. 2019. Y. Zhu, J. Zhao, A. Esmailpour, N. Rahman, J. Yang, "Day-Ahead Hourly Load Forecasting by Machine Learning with Big Data," IET Conference on Renewable Power Generation, Copenhagen, Denmark, Sept. 2018. J. Zeng, J. Zhao, and T. Kim, "Modeling and Control for a Photovoltaic Inverter with Power Decoupling on the AC Side," 2018 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE), Sept. 2018 Z. Ali, J. Zhao, E. Manla, J. Ma, and W. Song, "Novel Direct Power Control of Single-Phase Three-Level SVPWM Inverter for Photovoltaic Generation," 2017 IEEE Innovative Smart Grid Technologies, Feb. 2017. H. Al-Saadi, J. Zhao, J. Zeng, Y. Wang, and C. Wang, "Voltage Stability Evaluation by Using Extended Modal Analysis with Dynamic Internal Impedance of Synchronous Generators," IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting, July, 2016. H. Alafnan, J. Zhao, W. Ma, "Prevention of Overvoltage Induced by Large Penetration of Photovoltaics in Distribution Networks by Electric Vehicles," 2016 IEEE Transportation Electrification Conference and Expo, Asia-Pacific, June 2016. J. Zhao, C. Wang, Y. Wang, L. Xu, A. Golbazi, and J. Lu, "Optimal and fair real power capping method for voltage regulation in distribution networks with high PV penetration," IEEE PES General Meeting, accepted, 2015. J. Zhao, D. Shi, R. Sharma and C. Wang, "Microgrid reactive power management during and subsequent to islanding process," in Proc. IEEE PES Transmission and Distribution Conference & Exposition, Chicago, IL, Mar. 2014. J. Zhao, Y. Wang, C. Wang, F. Lin, and L. Y. Wang, "Maximizing the penetration of plug-in electric vehicles in distribution network," in Proc. of IEEE Transportation Electrification Conference & Expo, Dearborn, MI, June 2013. Q. Zhou, C. Wang, B. Zheng and J. Zhao, "Fault location for distribution networks with distributed generation sources using a hybrid PSO/DE algorithm," in Proc.IEEE-PES General Meeting, Vancouver, BC, July 2013. J. Zhao, K. Graves, C. Wang, G. Liao and C. P. Yeh, "A hybrid electric/hydro storage solution for standalone photovoltaic applications in remote areas," in Proc. IEEE-PES General Meeting, San Diego, CA, July 2012. C. Wang, S. McElmurry, C. Miller and J. Zhao, "An integrated economic/emission/load profile management dispatch algorithm," in Proc.IEEE-PES General Meeting, San Diego, CA, July 2012. J. Zhao, Z. Chen, F. Lin, C. Wang and H. Zhang, "Safety control of PHEVs in distribution networks using finite state machines with variables," in Proc. North American Power Symposium, Boston, MA, Aug. 2011. H. Leng, H. Zhou, Z. Chen, J. Zhao, and C. Wang, "Application of IEC60870-5-104 protocol in smart distribution grid and its test method," in Proc. IEEE North American Power Symposium, Boston, MA, Aug. 2011. J. Zhao, C. Wang, and F. Lin "Novel integration sliding mode speed controller for vector controlled induction machines," in Proc. IEEE PES General Meeting, Detroit, MI, July 2011. J. Zhao, C. Wang, and F. Lin, "Direct switching control of dc-dc power electronic converters using hybrid system theory," in Proc. CIGRE, Vancouver, BC, Oct. 2010. C. Wang, H. Nehrir, F. Lin, and J. Zhao, "From hybrid energy systems to microgrids: Hybridization techniques, configuration, and control," in Proc. IEEE PES General Meeting, Minneapolis, MN, July 2010. J. Zhao, M. Wang and S. Liu, "The study on the direct torque controlled induction motor based on low loss inverter with double frequency for electric vehicles," in Proc. IEEE Vehicle Power and Propulsion Conference, Harbin, China, Sept. 2008. J. Zhao, M. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Zhou, and S. Liu, "The study on the constant switching frequency direct torque controlled induction motor drive with a fuzzy sliding mode speed controller," in Proc. International Conference on Electrical Machines and Systems, Wuhan, China, Oct. 2008. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Electrical Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, M.S. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science In the Media Associated Press: Power makes slow return to eastern New Orleans Junhui Zhao, associate professor of electrical engineering, discusses ways to modernize the electrical systems throughout the country to prevent major outages. CT Insider: CT regulators approve incentives for battery systems for use during power outages Junhui Zhao, assistant professor of electrical engineering, discusses the effectiveness of a battery storage system powered from the sun and used during a power outage. Also of Interest:Amy Nicole Baker, Ph.D.Ravi Gorthala, Ph.D.Melissa L. Whitson, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
