Saion Sinha, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Saion Sinha, Ph.D. Professor, Physics, Biomedical and Electrical Engineering Mathematics and Physics Department Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department College of Arts and Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact SSinha@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7152 Maxcy Hall 327 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. - University of Kentucky B.S. and M.S. in Physics from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India About Saion Saion Sinha is an expert in nanotechnology. His research focuses on biomedical engineering applications. He is currently leading a multi-disciplinary research effort involving both graduate and undergraduate students that is focused on biomedical diagnostics and monitoring and therapeutic research His research group is developing novel biosensors for detection and monitoring of infectious diseases. His group also performs research on the efficient use of magnetic nanoparticles for cancer therapeutics as well as on its toxicity and remedies. He has published more than 40 papers in journals, and his work has been cited more than 1,000 times. His research has been funded by the Department of Defense, the National Science Foundation, Connecticut Innovations, and private industries. He is also the inventor of seven U.S., European, and Australian patents on devices and methods on the application of nanomaterials and nanotechnology. Two of his patented technologies have been commercialized. He is currently playing an active role in getting new inventions and technology from the laboratory to viable commercial products. He has been named a University Research Scholar has been nominated for the Connecticut Medal for Science and the Blavatnik Award from the New York Academy of Sciences. Dr. Sinha obtained his bachelors and masters degrees from the Indian Institute of Technology (I.I.T.) in Kharagpur and then received his Ph.D. in physics from the University of Kentucky. He completed his post-doc at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, where he focused on nanotechnology. See More See Less Published Books and Articles Refereed Publication Contributed Study on the growth conditions of Silicon Nanowires, Saion Sinha , C. Wynshank, C. Broadbridge, B. Gao, O. Zhou, submitted Journal of Material ScienceElectronic Structures of Single walled Carbon Nanotubes determined by NMR,.S. Sinha et al Science, 2000, April 21, 288, pg 492Alloy formation in Nanostructured Silicon,Bo Gao, Saion Sinha , Otto Zhou Journal of Advanced Materials., 2001, 13, pg 816-819Synthesis of Silicon Nanowires and novel Nano-Dendrite structures,Saion Sinha, Bo Gao, Otto Zhou; Electronic Structure of Novel Materials, 2000,342Zero Bias Conductance Peak enhancement in Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 to Pb Tunneling junction,Saion Sinha , K.-W. Ng; Physical Review Letters 1998 vol 80 pg 1296Andreev Reflection in Pb/BSCCO Tunneling Junction,Saion Sinha , K.-W. Ng; Journal of Chem & Physics of Solids 1998 vol 59 pg 2078Magnetic field dependence on Zero Bias Conductance Peak, Saion Sinha , K.-W. Ng; Europhysics Letters 1998 vol 44 pg 648Novel technique to synthesize Silicon Nanodendrites, Saion Sinha, Bo Gao, O. Zhou; Material Research Society Bulletin- Spring 2001 Other Publications Professional Synthesis of Novel Silicon Nanodendrites,Saion Sinha, B. Gao. O. Zhou CMOC (Connecticut Microelectronic and Optoelectronic Consortium) Bulletin 2001 Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological Sciences Marine and Estuarine Ecology, Landscape Ecology, and Advanced Applications of Geographic Information Systems Popular "Small World"--- article on Southern Life, Nov 2000 "Nanotechnology" --- article New Haven Register , Jan 11th 2001 "Marriage of Molecules & Business" article on Business New Haven, Feb 2002 Contributed Presentations Synthesis of Silicon Nanodendrites,Saion Sinha, Bo Gao, Otto Zhou; MRS Spring meeting 2001, San Francisco, CASynthesis and Characterization of Silicon nanostructures, Saion Sinha, Bo Gao, L.Fleming, J. Lorentzen, L. McNeil, O. Zhou; APS March meeting 2000, MinneapolisStudy of the Zero bias Conductance Peak in Metal Superconductor Junctions, Saion Sinha, K.-W Ng; American Physical Society March Meeting (1999) Atlanta, GeorgiaMagnetic field dependence study of the Zero Bias Conductance Peak in Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 to Metal Junctions, Saion Sinha , K.-W. Ng; American Physical Society March Meeting (1998) Los Angeles, CAStudy of Zero Bias Conductance Peak Enhancement in Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 to Pb Junctions, Saion Sinha , K.-W. Ng; CAP-Congress, Calgary, CANADA; June 1997Characterization of ultra-fine Nanoparticles Manufactured by Laser Pyrolysis,X.X.Bi, S.Sinha, P.C.Eklund ; MRS Meeting, Boston, November 1992 Invited Presentations Nanowires as future sensors- June 2001Perkin Elmer Instruments, SHELTON, CT, U.S.A. Silicon Nanowires --- Synthesis, Characterization and Application- May 2001Inframat Technologies, WILLINGTON, CT, U.S.A. Synthesis, Characterization and Application of Nanotubes/Nanowires- Jan 2001Indian Institute of Technology; KHARAGPUR, INDIA Application and Synthesis of thin films of Nanoscale Materials- June 2000UHV Technologies Inc. MOUNT LAUREL, NJ, U.S.A. Playing with Atoms- March 2000Ball State University, MUNCIE, IN, U.S.A. Synthesis of Nanotube film by Pulsed Laser Deposition- April 1999Holographics Inc. , NEW YORK, NY, U.S.A. Detailed study of the Metal/ BSCCO Zero Bias Conductance Peak- April 1998University of North Carolina, CHAPEL HILL , NC ,U.S.A. Electromagnetism ----- A fun game- Feb 1998School of Maths and Sciences , MOBILE, AL, USA Study of Superconductor superlattice study by magnetron sputteringEG & G Photo-electronics, MONTREAL, CANADA- Nov 1997 Patents U.S. Patent # 6,334,939 titled " Nanostructure Based High Energy Capacity Material" Curriculum Development and Organization Developed and organized a workshop on "Nanotechnology" for Business Professionals at Southern Connecticut State University Worked on Developing a "Business of Science" program at Southern Connecticut State University Worked on Developing a "Applied Physics" specialization at Southern Connecticut State University Awards Research Grants 2002- U.S. Nanocorps Inc. --- for preliminary study on thermal properties of nanofilms 2002- Connecticut State --- for developing PLD system to grow nanoceramic films 2001- Connecticut State --- --- for study on the growth of nanowires Research Honors 2001- Letter of Honor from Ms. Rosa DeLauro, Member of Congress (3rd. District, CT) CT) 2001- Letter of Appreciation for research from Mr. Mike Adanti, President SCSU Academic Honors 1991 J.C. Ghosh Memorial Merit Scholarship ( for performance in M.S.) 1985 Merit Scholarship ( for performance in Mathematics Olympiad ) 1984 National Scholarship ( for performance in Secondary Examination See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering College of Arts and Sciences Physics, Minor Electrical Engineering, B.S. Computer Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, M.S. Biomedical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Biomaterials & Medical Device Innovation Laboratory (BMD iLab) Also of Interest:Matthew Griffiths, Ph.D.David Sloane, Ph.D.Ali Jafarian, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
