Judy Randi, Ed.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Judy Randi, Ed.D. Professor Emeritus Engineering and Applied Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact JRandi@newhaven.edu For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ed.D., Curriculum & Teaching, Teachers College Columbia University C.A.S., Educational Administration and Instructional Technology, Fairfield University M.L.S., Library Science, Southern Connecticut State University M.A., Classics, Wesleyan University About Judy Dr. Randi joined the University of New Haven Education faculty in 2001. Dr. Randi is currently teaching in the Tagliatela College of Engineering where she is coordinating a college-wide initiative, the Project to Integrate Technical Communication Habits (PITCH). As an educational researcher and teacher educator, Dr. Randi has published numerous peer reviewed articles and book chapters, many of which have been co-authored with current and former students. Her research has documented innovative teaching practices through a research method she terms "collaborative innovation" a method of documenting teachers own instructional inventions attuned to the contexts in which they work, yet consistent with the research base on teaching and learning. She is eager to expand her research program in writing/visual literacy, adaptive teaching, and self-regulated learning to the STEM areas. As a writer, qualitative researcher, and reviewer for several high impact education journals, Dr. Randi welcomes the opportunity to mentor engineering student writers and considers teaching the most important contribution to education scholarship. Appointments at the University of New Haven Professor of Education, Engineering & Applied Science, 2017 - present Professor, Graduate Education, 2015 - 2017 Associate Professor, Graduate Education, 2007 - 2015 Assistant Professor, Graduate Education, 2001 - 2007 Research Affiliations Sabbatical Research Affiliate, Yale University EG Lab (Yale Child Study Center), 2009-2010 Postdoctoral Research Associate, Yale University PACE Center (Psychology), 1999-2001 Awards University Research Scholar, 2011 - 2014 Engineering Conference Proceedings Simson, A., Becker, A.L., & Randi, J. (June 2017). Assessing the value of different techniques for teaching technical communication skills. Presenting Author. Proceedings of the ASEE Annual Conference, Columbus, OH. Spiegel, J., Becker, A., Randi, J., & Carnasciali, M. (April 2016). College settings that promote innovation and entrepreneurship: A comparative case study. Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Education NE Regional Conference, Kingston, RI. See More See Less Selected Recent Publications Randi, J. (2017). Teaching and learning hand in hand: Adaptive teaching and self-regulated learning. Teachers College Record, 119 (13). http://www.tcrecord.org ID Number: 21929. Randi, J. (2017). Teaching and genetic/genomic variation. In S.Bourgey, E.L. Grigorenko, S. Latham, & M.Tan (Eds.), Current Perspectives in Psychology: Genetics, Ethics and Education (pp. 325-351). Cambridge University Press. http://www.cambridge.org/gb/academic/subjects/psychology/educational-psychology/genetics-ethics-and-education?format=PB#contentsTabAnchor Randi, J., & Grigorenko, E. (Editors). (2016). Special issue: Creating argument. Learning Disabilities: A Contemporary Journal, 15 (1). Sternberg, R., Birney, D., Jarvin, L., Naples, A., Newman, T., A., Stemler, S., Otterback, R., Parrish, C., Randi, J., Grogorenko, E.G. (2014). Testing the Theory of Successful Intelligence in teaching grade 4 language arts, mathematics, and science. Journal of Educational Psychology. Available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/a0035833 Barbot, B., Randi, J., Tan, M., Levenson, C., Friedlaender, L. K., et al. (submitted). From perception to expression: A multi-method pilot study of a visual literacy intervention. Learning and Individual Differences. (28), 167-176. Randi, J., Corno, L., & Johnson, E. (2011). Transitioning from college classroom to teaching career: Self-regulation in prospective teachers. New Directions for Teaching and Learning. 12, 89-98. Recent Presentations Randi, J., Tan, M., Godwin, E., & Campbell, S. (March 31, 2012). Before, during, and after writing: What teachers can learn about children as writers through visual, verbal, and written modes. Tan, M., Barbot, B., Randi, J., Levenson, C., Friedlaender, L., & Grigorenko, E. (July, 2011). Seeing, connecting, writing: A collaboration between the Yale Center for British Art and the Yale Child Study Center. Paper presented at the Annual Conference of International Association of Cognitive Education and Psychology, Boston, MA. Randi, J.(October, 2010). Working Smart: Self-regulation at Home, School, and Career. Friends of the University of New Haven Library. University of New Haven Marvin K. Peterson Library. West Haven Edmunds-Lloyd, M., Golbazi, A., & Randi, J. (October, 2009). Promoting scientific literacy through university-school partnership. Poster session presented at the Connecticut Conference of Independent Colleges Connecticut Higher Education in the Public Square: Promoting STEM Literacy,Yale University West Campus, West Haven, CT. Randi, J. (March, 2009). Promoting self-regulated learning in the literacy curriculum. Paper presented at the 3rd Annual Literacy Essentials Conference. New Britain, CT. Professional Recognition and Honors 2012 2014 University Research Scholar 2011Educational Testing Service: Nomination Praxis I Review Panel 2010 Teachers College Columbia University Design Panel: Adaptive Education 2010 CT Common Core of Teaching Revision Committee 2009Teachers College Columbia University Design Panel: Teacher Education See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Engineering, B.S. Department of Engineering and Applied Science Education Also of Interest:Ophelie Y. Rowe-Allen, Ed.D.Sorin Iliescu, Ed.D.Agamemnon Koutsospyros, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
