Ali Golbazi, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Ali Golbazi, Ph.D. Professor/Chair, Undergraduate Coordinator Electrical Engineering & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact AGolbazi@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7162 Maxcy 120E For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D.: Electrical Engineering , Wayne State University About Ali Dr. Ali Golbazi is currently the chair of the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science at the University of New Haven. He teaches in the electrical engineering program both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Prior to joining the University of New Haven, in 1986 Dr. Golbazi was a lecturer at George Washington University. He is a member of the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). Dr. Golbazi' s academic and research interests are in fiber optics, optical sensors, and electronics. Dr. Golbazi serves as the Director of Project Lead The Way (PLTW) at the University of New Haven. PLTW is the leading STEM curriculum for middle and high schools in Connecticut and the nation. Published Books and Articles "A Pilot Program in Internet-of-things with University and Industry Collaboration: Introduction and Lessons Learned" 2018 ASEE Annual Conference and Exhibition. M. A. Golbazi, B. Karimi, A. Lizotte. "A Partnership in Engineering Education: A K-12 Initiative" , Proceedings of the ASE New England Section 2005 Annual Conference. March 2005. "A pre-biased micro bending optical sensor", International Symposium on Optical Science, Engineering , and Instrumentation, Denver, Colorado. August 8, 1996. Journal of International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE), vol. 2839 pp. 426-433. "A Hybrid Fiber Optic temperature sensor based on internal effect principle "International Symposium on optical engineering and Photonics in Aerospace Science and sensing, Orlando, Florida, April 14, 1993. Journal of International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE), vol. 1952 pp. 245-255. "Light Guides", Contribution to a chapter in Magill's Survey of Science, Salem Press. Nov. 1991, pp.1517-1524. Courses Taught EE 680 Fiber Optic Communications EE 461 Electromagnetic Theory EE 235 Analog Circuits EE 247 Electronics I EE 257 Analog Circuits Laboratory EE 348 Electronics II EE 349 Electronics Design Laboratory EE 155 Digital Systems I EE 480 Fiber Optic Communications EAS230Fundamentals & Applications of Analog Devices See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Computer Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, M.S. Also of Interest:M. Ali Montazer, Ph.D.Bradley Woodworth, Ph.D.Mohamed Nassar, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
