Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, Ph.D. Elder Family Chair Assistant Dean Professor, Computer Science Director, Connecticut Institute of Technology Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact IBaggili@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7198 Maxcy 216B For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Computer Information Technology (Emphasis on Cybersecurity and Networks and Cyber Forensics), Purdue University M.S. in Computer Information Technology (Emphasis on Programming for Mobile Devices), Purdue University B.S. in Computer and Information Technology - Network Engineering Technology (With Distinction), Purdue University About Ibrahim (Abe) Ibrahim "Abe" Baggili is an internationally recognized expert in cyber security and digital forensics. He is the founder and co-director of the University of New Havens Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group. The group, which includes student researchers, found liabilities in popular apps, including WhatsApp and Viber, that affected more than 1.5 billion users, garnering significant international media coverage. Its National Security Foundation-funded research showed that they could break into virtual reality systems the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift and alter what happened once they got in. Dr. Baggili works regularly with law enforcement on digital forensics to help solve crimes, and he created the Artifact Genome Project, a digital information resource for law enforcement. His work has been supported by the National Security Agency and the MITRE Corporation, which funded a project entitled "Survey for Automation of Child Abuse Investigations." He received his Ph.D., masters, and bachelors degrees in computer information technology from Purdue University, where he was a researcher at its Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security (CERIAS) and its Cyber Forensics Laboratory. Before arriving at the University of New Haven in 2013, he was an assistant professor at Zayed University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and director of the Advanced Cyber Forensics Research Laboratory, the first cyber forensics lab in the Arab region. In 2019, he was named a fellow of the European Alliance for Innovation. The former editor-in-chief for the Journal of Digital Forensics, Security, and Law, Dr. Baggili investigated and co-authored "A Method and a Case Study for the Selection of the Best Available Tools for Mobile Device Forensics Using Decision Analysis," which was published in Digital Investigation. He won the best paper award for "File Detection on Network Traffic Using Approximate Matching" at the International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime. Named to Connecticut Magazines "40 under 40" Class of 2018, a list of high-achievers under the age of 40 who stand out in their fields, Dr. Baggili mentors undergraduate and graduate researchers and the Universitys hacking team. The team was a finalist in the Collegiate Penetration Testing Competition and placed second at the CyberSeed competition at UConn. Hes also the principal investigator on the GenCyber Agent Academy funded by the NSA and NSF a summer academy for middle and high school students to encourage interest in the STEM fields. Courses Taught Memory Forensics Information Security, Policy, Ethics and Law Computer Networking Intro to Cyber Forensic Science Research Topics in Cybersecurity and Forensics Advanced Topics in Cyber Forensics Small-Scale Digital Device Forensics Penetration Testing and Advanced Hacking Techniques Cyber Criminal Behavior Ethical Hacking and Countermeasures Introduction to Programming Information Security Basics Information Security Technologies See More See Less Selected Publications, Funding, Honors & Presentations Ricci, J., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2019). Blockchain-Based Distributed Cloud Storage Digital Forensics: Where's the Beef?. IEEE Security & Privacy, 17(1), 34-42. Zhang, X., Grannis, J., Baggili, I., & Beebe, N. L. (2019). Frameup: An incriminatory attack on storj: A peer to peer blockchain enabled distributed storage system. Digital Investigation. Casey, P., Baggili, I., & Yarramreddy, A. (2019). Immersive Virtual Reality Attacks and the Human Joystick. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing. Schmicker, R., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. (2018). AndroParse-An Android Feature Extraction Framework and Dataset. In International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime (pp. 66-88). Springer, Cham. Haigh, T., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. (2018). If I Had a Million Cryptos: Cryptowallet Application Analysis and a Trojan Proof-of-Concept. In International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime (pp. 45-65). Springer, Cham. Dorai, G., Houshmand, S., & Baggili, I. (2018). I Know What You Did Last Summer: Your Smart Home Internet of Things and Your iPhone Forensically Ratting You Out. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security (p. 49). ACM. Luciano, L., Baggili, I., Topor, M., Casey, P., & Breitinger, F. (2018). Digital Forensics in the Next Five Years. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security (p. 46). ACM. Yarramreddy, A., Gromkowski, P., & Baggili, I. (2018). Forensic Analysis of Immersive Virtual Reality Social Applications: A Primary Account. In 2018 IEEE Security and Privacy Workshops (SPW) (pp. 186-196). IEEE. Grajeda, C., Sanchez, L., Baggili, I., Clark, D., & Breitinger, F. (2018). Experience constructing the Artifact Genome Project (AGP): Managing the domain's knowledge one artifact at a time. Digital Investigation, 26, S47-S58. Ricci, J., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. (2018). Survey results on adults and cybersecurity education. Education and Information Technologies, 1-19. Ricci, J., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2018). Watch What You Wear: Smartwatches and Sluggish Security. In Wearable Technologies: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools, and Applications (pp. 1458-1478). IGI Global. Knieriem, B., Zhang, X., Levine, P., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. (2017). An Overview of the Usage of Default Passwords. In International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime (pp. 195-203). Springer. Saleem, S., Popov, O., & Baggili, I. (2017). Comments on "A method and a case study for the selection of the best available tool for mobile device forensics using decision analysis"[Digit Investig 16S, S55S64]. Digital Investigation, 21, 88. Meffert, C., Clark, D., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2017). Forensic State Acquisition from Internet of Things (FSAIoT): A general framework and practical approach for IoT forensics through IoT device state acquisition. In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security (p. 56). ACM. Zhang, X., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F.. Breaking into the vault: privacy, security and forensic analysis of android vault applications. Computers & Security (2017), Issn: 0167-4048. Moore, J., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2017). Find Me If You Can: Mobile GPS Mapping Applications Forensic Analysis & SNAVP the Open Source, Modular, Extensible Parser. Journal of Digital Forensics, Security and Law, 12(1), 7. Grajeda, C., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. Availability of datasets for digital forensics And what is missing. Digital Investigation 22, Supplement (2017), S94 S105. issn: 1742- 2876. Denton, G., Karpisek, F., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. Leveraging the SRTP protocol for over-the-network memory acquisition of a GE Fanuc Series 90-30. Digital Investigation 22, Supplement (2017), S26 S38. issn: 1742-2876. Clark, D., Meffert, C., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. DROP (DRone Open source Parser) your drone: Forensic analysis of the DJI Phantom III. Digital Investigation 22, Supplement (2017), S3 S14. issn: 1742-2876. Al-khateeb, S., Conlan, K. J., Agarwal, N., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2016). Exploring Deviant Hacker Networks (DHN) On Social Media Platforms. Journal of Digital Forensics, Security and Law, 11(2), 7-20. Harichandran, V. S., Breitinger, F., & Baggili, I. (2016). Bytewise Approximate Matching: The Good, The Bad, and The Unknown. Journal of Digital Forensics, Security and Law, 11(2), 59-78. Ricci, J., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2017). Watch What You Wear: Smartwatches and Sluggish Security. In A. Marrington, D. Kerr, & J. Gammack (Eds.) Managing Security Issues and the Hidden Dangers of Wearable Technologies (pp. 47-73). Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference. doi:10.4018/978-1-5225-1016-1.ch003 Meffert, C. S., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2016). Deleting collected digital evidence by exploiting a widely adopted hardware write blocker. Digital Investigation , 18 , S87-S96. Harichandran, V. S., Walnycky, D., Baggili, I., & Breitinger+, F. (2016). CuFA: A more formal definition for digital forensic artifacts. Digital Investigation , 18 , S125-S137. Conlan, K., Baggili, I., & Breitinger, F. (2016). Anti-forensics: Furthering digital forensic science through a new extended, granular taxonomy. Digital Investigation , 18 , S66-S75. Click here for a complete list of publications. Funding, Gifts & Startup Funds 2019: Source: NSF & NSA, Title: University of New Haven's GenCyber Agent Academy, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Co-PIs: Liberty Page and Frank Breitinger, Amount requested $78,258.95 - Funded. 2019: Source: NSF, Title: University of New Haven CyberCorps Scholarship for Service (SFS): Super Cyber Operatives (SCOs), PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Co-PIs: Ronald Harichandran, Liberty Page, Amount requested: $1,960,712 - Submitted. 2018: Source: NSF, Title: Expanding Digital Forensics Education with Artifact Curation and Scalable, Accessible Artifact Exercises, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Amount requested $426,945 - Submitted. 2018: Source: MITRE Corp., Title: Survey for Automation of Child Abuse Investigations, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Amount requested: $32,827.61 - Funded. 2017: Source: NSF, Title: Exploring cybersecurity and forensics of Virtual Reality systems and their impact on cybersecurity education, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Co-PI: Frank Breitinger, Amount requested $179,409 - Funded. 2017: Source: NSF sub-award Title: Renewal of the Scholarship for Service Program: The University of Texas at San Antonio, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Amount requested $14,648 - Funded. 2017: Source: Davis Educational Foundation, Title: Development of the CyberWorld Common Course at the University of New Haven, PI: Frank Breitinger, Co-PIs: Kristen Przyborski, Ronald Harichandran, Ibrahim Baggili, Guy-Serge Emmanuel, Glenn McGee, Christy Smith, Matthew Schmidt, Amount $167,418 Funded. 2017: Source: NSF & NSA, Title: University of New Haven's GenCyber Agent Academy, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Co-PIs: Liberty Page and Frank Breitinger, Amount requested $64,099 - Funded. 2016: Source: NSF & NSA, Title: University of New Haven's GenCyber Agent Academy, PI: Ibrahim Baggili, Co-PIs: Liberty Page and Frank Breitinger, Amount requested $53,029 - Funded. 2016: $7,876 Frank Breitinger & Ibrahim Baggili: Gift in kind to our lab from the Vera Institute of Justice to support our activities - Funded Gift in Kind. Honors & Awards 2019: Awarded European Alliance for Innovation Fellow 2018: Our Student Trevor Haigh Won Best Paper Award , ICDF2C 2018 for the paper titled "If I Had a Million Cryptos: Cryptowallet Application Analysis and A Trojan Proof-of-Concept." 2017: Our mentored student hacking team received Second place at CyberSEED, University of Connecticut. 2017: Our mentored student hacking team received third place in the northeast qualifiers of the Collegiate Penetration Testing Competition (CPTC) at the University of Pennsylvania. 2017: Received letter of appreciation for activities and training performed for the United Nations in Jordan and Egypt. 2016: Received letter of appreciation from the CT Center for Digital Investigation. Our lab was able to create a forensic tool to recover data hidden by a Vault application on Android. Recovered files included 18 additional videos that were prosecutable. 2016: Three of my students received Google sponsored scholarships to attend DFRWS 2016 and present their work. 2016: Third place in national Black-t-shirt digital forensics competition. The team was composed of Chris Meffert (Graduate student), Joseph Ricci (Undergraduate student) and myself. We competed against 184 university teams worldwide. 2016: Finalist in Cybersecurity Excellence Awards for cyber security educator of the year award in the USA - nominated by my students. 2015: Inducted into Upsilon Pi Epsilon - The International Honor Society for the Computing and Information Disciplines. 2014: University Research Scholar, University of New Haven, 2014-2017 Presentations, Talks & Workshops 2019: Presented at University of Colorado, Colorado Springs "Virtual Reality Insanity: Cybersecurity and Forensics of Immersive Virtual Reality", Colorado Springs, CO 2018: Invited Talk by University of Louisville "Virtual Reality Insanity: Cybersecurity and Forensics of Immersive Virtual Reality", Louisville, KY 2018: Invited Talk by Rutgers University "Virtual Reality Insanity: Cybersecurity and Forensics of Immersive Virtual Reality", Newark, NJ 2018: Invited Talk by ISACA to the 6th North East Annual Cybersecurity Summit (NEACS) "Virtual Reality Insanity: Cybersecurity and Forensics of Immersive Virtual Reality", Trumbull CT 2018: Presented "Digital Forensics In the Next Five Years", WSDF, ARES 2018, Hamburg, Germany 2018: Attended professional development PI meeting for NSA's GenCyber program, Phoenix, AZ 2018: Presented "Digital Forensics In the Next Five Years", ICDF2C 2018, New Orleans 2018: Presented "Digital Forensics In the Next Five Years", SADFE 2018, S&P Workshop, San Francisco, CA 2018: Invited Presentation by United States Military Academy "UNHcFREG Research Projects and Hacking Team", West Point, NY See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Cyber Security and Networks, B.S. Computer Science, B.S. Cyber Security and Networks, M.S. Computer Science, M.S. Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department News and In the Media In the Media Newsvire: What the metaverse will (and wont) be, according to 28 experts Ibrahim Baggili, professor of cybersecurity, offers his opinion on the technology vulnerabilities of the metaverse, a 3D virtual world that individuals can explore online using an avatar. In the Media News8 WTNH: Should you be worried about someone hacking your Peloton? Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering and director of the Connecticut Institute of Technology, talks about the ease of access for hackers to a camera or microphone on exercise equipment. In the Media TIME for Kids: Cyber School Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, comments on the GenCyber camp for middle and high school students funded by the NSA and NSF. In the Media WTNH: Experts warn cyberattack threat from Iran is high Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses the possibility of cyber-attacks from Iran. In the Media WFXT-BOS (FOX) - Boston, MA: Concerns over Cybersecurity threats in the US Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses possible types of cyber-attacks from overseas. Cybersecurity University News New Mini Documentary Examines How University of New Haven is Addressing Cybersecurity Talent Gap, Preparing Workforce of the Future Produced by Ibrahim 'Abe' Baggili an internationally recognized digital forensics expert for Cybersecurity Awareness Month, the short film gives an inside look at a pioneering camp developed by the University to prepare and help diversify the cybersecurity workforce of the future. Cybersecurity Competition University News University of New Haven to Host New England Regional of International Cybersecurity Competition The highly regarded competition will give the University's students another opportunity to showcase their skills at the highest level and help raise awareness of the University's growing reputation as a leading institution for cybersecurity education and research. Cybersecurity The Charger Blog Cybersecurity Professor Warns of Fitness App Dangers Although fitness apps can enable users to live healthier lives, Ibrahim 'Abe' Baggili, the University of New Havens Elder Family Endowed Chair of Computer Science and Cybersecurity, warns that they can present privacy and safety concerns. In the Media WTNH: Criminals can use fitness apps to track your daily routines, personal information, experts say Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, warns about the potential for criminals to use data derived from mobile health and fitness apps to track a persons daily routine and access their personal information. In the Media Digital Trends: Virtual Reality May Be Cool, Bit Is It Safe From Hackers Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses security in virtual reality and the creation of Connecticuts first CyberCorps Scholarship for Service program. Ibrahim "Abe" Baggili The Charger Blog Internationally Acclaimed Cybersecurity Expert Discovered Building a Safer World Began with Taking Things Apart Ibrahim "Abe" Baggili, the University of New Havens Elder Family Endowed Chair of Computer Science and Cybersecurity, was named a fellow of the European Alliance for Innovation, a designation earned by a fraction of the organizations 150,000 members. In the Media WDRC: The Whale Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses the GenCyber Agent Academy hosted by the University of New Haven. In the Media New Haven Register: UNH cybersecurity camp trains ethical high school hackers High school students attend the week-long camp at the GenCyber Agent Academy, led by Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili. Cybersecurity University News University of New Havens Groundbreaking Artifact Genome Project Earns National Science Foundation Grant The $300,000 award will support the development of educational materials that will enable aspiring cybersecurity and digital forensics professionals to learn how to identify digital artifacts. In the Media Fox 61: Cracking codes at summer camp Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses the GenCyber Agent Academy, a week-long cybersecurity camp for high school students at the University of New Haven. In the Media WTIC: Mornings with Ray Dunaway: Dr. Ibrahim Baggili Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses the $4 million National Science Foundation grant that was recently given to the University of New Haven. In the Media UNHcFREG: Spring 2019 Last Lecture IIbrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, was chosen to give the Last Lecture of Spring 2019. In the Media WTNH: Good Morning Connecticut Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses the University of New Haven being named a Center of Academic Excellence by The National Security Agency. Cybersecurity University News National Security Agency Names University of New Haven a Center of Academic Excellence The designation recognizes the Universitys undergraduate cybersecurity and computer science programs that are preparing graduates for the more than 3.5 million cybersecurity positions that are predicted to be unfilled by 2021 Faculty Awards The Charger Blog Faculty Members Honored for Scholarly Achievements, Impact on Students Nominated by their students and colleagues, five professors have been recognized for their research, leadership, and dedication to students success. In the Media NBC CT: Romance Schemes Are On The Rise, Costing Online Daters Millions Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, warns public to exercise caution while using online dating websites as the number of catfishing scams continues to grow. In the Media DZone: Catholic Health Services of Long Island Names Chief Marketing Officer Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, and a team of researchers from the University of New Haven were able to find multiple vulnerabilities within virtual reality software and underlying Unity APIs. In the Media DZone: Catholic Health Services of Long Island Names Chief Marketing Officer Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, and a team of researchers from the University of New Haven were able to find multiple vulnerabilities within virtual reality software and underlying Unity APIs. In the Media Road to VR: Bigscreen Patches Potential Hack That Could Have Spelled Disaster for the Platform After Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, and a team of University of New Haven researchers were able to uncover privacy vulnerabilities within Bigscreens virtual reality software, the company patches the issue. In the Media CSO: Meet the Man-In-The-Room Attack: Hackers Can Invisibly Eavesdrop on Bigscreen VR Users Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, along with other University of New Haven researchers were able to uncover vulnerabilities within a popular vitual reality application. In the Media SC Media: Browning: Critical Vulnerabilities in Bigscreen VR App Unity Allow Eavesdropping, Man-In-The-Room Attacks Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, led a team of University of New Haven researchers that was able to uncover privacy vulnerabilities within a popular virtual reality software. VR Vulnerabilities University News University of New Haven Researchers Discover Critical Vulnerabilities in Popular Virtual Reality Application Using Bigscreen, a popular virtual reality application, researchers at the University of New Haven were able to listen to users conversations and access their computers without their knowledge. In the Media ABC 2: Virtual Reality becoming new target for potential hackers Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean of electrical & computer engineering, details the dangers of virtual reality software hacking and what types of attacks there are. Virtual Reality Gaming University News University of New Haven Professor Abe Baggili Warns of Vulnerabilities in Virtual Reality Gaming Systems An internationally recognized expert in cybersecurity and digital forensics, Ibrahim "Abe" Baggili believes that virtual reality is a growing arena for both gamers and hackers, and his warning is now reaching consumers nationwide. In the Media 3 On Your Side: Virtual Reality Risks With virtual reality headsets becoming more popular for gifts in recent times, its important to understand the risks. Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, an associate professor and assistant dean of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, discusses the dangers of virtual reality software hacking. In the Media ABC 30: Beware! Virtual reality games are susceptible to hacking, say experts Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, an associate professor and assistant dean of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, discusses the dangers of virtual reality software hacking. In the Media CBS 46: Is Virtual Reality the Next Hacking Realm? Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, an associate professor and assistant dean of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, speaks of vulnerabilities within virtual reality software that could become new targets for hacking. In the Media MIT Technology Review: Six things to do with your data before you die Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, an associate professor and assistant dean of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, warns of the possible drawbacks of retrieving data belonging to the deceased. In the Media New Haven Register: West Haven falls victim to ransomware cyberattack, pays $2,000 in Bitcoin to regain access to servers Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, an associate professor and dean of electrical & computer engineering and computer science, speaks of possible outcomes for the future after this cyber attack. In the Media Teen Life: How Colleges Are Turning Computer Science into A Girl Thing Abe Baggili, associate professor and head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, comments on methods to get girls interested in majoring in the male-dominated field of cyber security. In the Media Forensic Magazine: The Digital Forensic Boom Abe Baggili, associate professor and head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, and his team established the Artifact Genome Project. This project allows open communication for all security experts around the world to keep up with evolving technology. NBC30, June 1: Why You Should Reboot Your Router Now Abe Baggili, associate professor and head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, comments on the importance of rebooting your router to prevent potential hackers. CNET: Hack a VR system, lead a player astray? Yes, say researchers Abe Baggili, head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, discusses how he and his research team have discovered vulnerabilities in multiple virtual reality headsets that allow hackers to remotely alter what the wearer sees. This story was picked up by KCBS radio as well as dozens of web publications on technology. New Haven Biz: U of New Haven Cybersecurity Team Advances in National Competition Abe Baggili, head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, comments on how his group has advanced in the National Cyber Analyst Challenge with the highest team rating. Dallas Business Journal: University of New Haven Professor Abe Baggili Named One of 40 Leading High-Achievers by Connecticut Magazine Abe Baggili, head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, has been chosen as one of Connecticut Magazines top 40 highest achievers. Connecticut Magazine: Connecticut's 40 Under 40: Class of 2018 Connecticut Magazine has chosen Ibrahim (Abe) Baggili, head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, as one of Connecticuts highest-achievers under 40 years of age. Global News: iPhone Update Will Let You Turn Off Battery Slowdowns; Experts Suggest You Think Twice Abe Baggili, head of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, Elder Family Chair professor of computer science, and the assistant dean of Tagliatela College of Engineering, discusses the expectations of consumers following Apples admission to purposefully slowing down their cell phones. SC Media US: Hackers Phishing Facebook Addicts This Holiday Season Abe Baggili, chaired professor and assistant dean of engineering and co-director and founder of the University of New Havens Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, comments on the rising trend of scammers using malicious phishing tactics to obtain sensitive information from Facebook users. WTNH-TV8: FBI-Led Cyber Security Unit Forms As Online Crime Spikes in Connecticut Abe Baggili, associate professor and assistant dean engineering, comments on the formation of a new task force to fight cyber crime. Boston Business Journal: University of New Haven Cyber Forensics Team Launches Digital Forensics Database Abe Baggili, Elder Family Chair in engineering and assistant dean, and students in the Cyber Forensics Law, have developed a system where law enforcement can archive solutions to digital problems like looking into a phone or app to help fellow officers around the globe. The project is called the Artifact Genome Project and is like the Human Genome Project. WTNH-TV8: Digital Evidence Playing Larger Role Than Ever in Criminal Investigations Abe Baggili, assistant dean, associate professor, co-director and founder of the Cyber Forensics Laboratory, comments on analyzing data in wearable technology, like FitBits, and how they are used in criminal investigations. WTNH-TV8: Wi-Fi Security Threats Exposed Abe Baggili, assistant dean, associate professor, co-director and founder of the Cyber Forensics Laboratory, comments on how the cyber forensics research group is using a "hotspot" library to detect threats located on Wi-Fi. Redmond Magazine: Nonprofit Under Attack: A Cyber Defense Case Study Abe Baggili, assistant dean and associate professor of computer science, comments on the cyber attack on the non-profit organization, Planned Parenthood. WWLP-News 22 (Mass.): As Drone Usage Soars, Potential for Misuse Also Rises Abe Baggili, co-director and founder of the Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG) and associate professor and assistant dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, comments on the potential misuse of drones. SC Media: Anonymity: Cybersecuritys Double-Edged Sword Abe Baggili, founder of the Cyber Forensics Research Group and associate professor and assistant dean of electrical and computer engineering, comments on anonymity being a huge concern in the digital forensics process. See More See Less Also of Interest:John DeCarlo, Ph.D.Amy Nicole Baker, Ph.D.Candice Lynette Deal, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
