Maria-Isabel Carnasciali, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Maria-Isabel Carnasciali, Ph.D. Assistant Provost for Program Assesment & Effectiveness Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering Provost's Office Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact MCarnasciali@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7159 Maxcy Hall 205 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology B.S. in Engineering as recommended by the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology About Maria-Isabel Maria-Isabel Carnasciali is on sabbatical during the academic year 2021-2022; please contact Department Chair Ravi Gorthala at RGorthala@newhaven.edu or (203) 479-4119. Maria-Isabel Carnasciali joined the University of New Haven Engineering faculty in 2010. Prior to that she was visiting faculty in Mechanical Engineering at the Georgia Tech Lorraine campus in Metz, France. As a post-doctoral fellow at the Center for Enhancement of Teaching & Learning at Georgia Tech Atlanta campus, she developed skills and interests in engineering education research and program assessment methods. She received her Ph.D. from Georgia Tech in 2008 specializing in the area of thermal-fluid sciences. While at M.I.T., from where she received her B.S. in Engineering in 2000, she developed a deep belief in the value and impact of undergraduate research. She carries this passion into the classroom and actively seeks to involve students in all aspects of research. Areas of Expertise and Research Computational Models in Fluids & Heat Transfer (CFD modeling) Deceleration Devices Description: Use of Computational Fluid Dynamics for the Design and Optimization of Deceleration Devices Wind Turbines Thermal-Fluid Systems & Sensors (Re-Design for Efficiency & Sustainability) Engineering Education Research Understanding the non-traditional engineering student Professional Memberships American Physical Society (APS) Division of Fluid Dynamics Society of Women Engineers American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) Grants National Science Foundation, "S-STEM: A Scholarship Program to Increase Retention In Engineering (ASPIRE): Improving Work-Study-Life Balance," PI: J. Nocito-Gobel; Co-PIs: M. Carnasciali, C. Martinez, 2012-17. Kern Foundation (KEEN Topical Grant), "New England Integrating Curricula with Entrepreneurial Content (ICE) Workshop", PI: M. Carnasciali; Co-PI: J. Nocito-Gobel (University of New Haven), D. Carpenter (Lawrence Tech. U.) 2013-14. Kern Foundation (KEEN Topical Grant), "KEEN Across the Engineering Curriculum Model (KatEC) for the University of New Haven," PI: A. Thompson; Co-PI: M. Carnasciali, 2013-14. Kern Foundation, "Kern Entrepreneurship Education Network (KEEN) Program Development Grant." Co-PIs: J. Nocito-Gobel, M. Carnasciali, 2011-13. Pioneer Aerospace, "CFD Analysis of Deceleration Devices and Related Objects," 2011-2013. University of New Haven Faculty Research & Summer Fellowship awards 2013 CFD Analysis of Wind Turbine Blade Geometry Continuation 2012 CFD Analysis of Wind Turbine Blade Geometry 2011 Study of Aerodynamic Forces using CFD See More See Less Selected Publications and Presentations Carnasciali, M., A. Thompson, and T. Thomas. "Factors Influencing Students Choice of Engineering Major," Proceedings, 120th ASEE Annual Conference & Exposition, Atlanta, GA, June 2013. Young, J., M-I. Carnasciali, and M. Kandis. "Flow in the Near Wake of Hemispherical Parachute Shapes," American Physical Society, November 2012. Ciston, S., M.Carnasciali, V. Zelenak, and M. Hollis. "Adult Undergraduate Engineering Student Experience," Proceedings, 119th ASEE Annual Conference & Exposition, San Antonio, TX, June 2012. Schwab, J., J. Andrejczyk, M. Carnasciali, and M. Kandis, "Stability Analysis of a Cylindrical Mortar Cover Ejected at Various Mach Numbers and Angles of Attach," American Physical Society, Nov. 2011. Ciston, S., M.Carnasciali, J. Nocito-Gobel, and C. Carr. "Impacts of Living Learning Communities on Engineering Student Engagement and Sense of Affiliation," Proceedings, 118th ASEE Annual Conference & Exposition,Vancouver, B.C., June 2011. Zelenak, V., S. Ciston, M. Hollis, and M.Carnasciali. "What Drives Engineers? A Qualitative Study on the Adult Engineering Student Experience," Presentation, 2011 NE ASEE Conference, May 2011. Carnasciali M., C. Ou, and T. Utschig. "Investigation of Student Perceptions About Learning in Large Courses Utilizing PRS," SoTL Commons Conference, March 2009 (Statesboro, GA). Carnasciali M., and T. Utschig, "TA Preparation in Science & Mathematics Service Courses for Engineers at GA Tech.," Presentation, CASEE Dane and Mary Louise Miller Symposium, Oct 2008. Carnasciali M., "Kinetic Friction of Nonwetting Drops," Georgia Institute of Technology, May 2008. Carnasciali M., "Frictional Forces Associated With Isothermal Nonwetting," American Physical Society, November 2005. Carnasciali M., "Determination of Frictional Forces Associated with Nonwetting," American Physical Society, November 2002, Vol.47 No. 103. Courses Taught EASC 1107 Introduction to Engineering: Project-Based EASC 1112 Methods of Engineering Analysis EASC 2224 Fluid-Thermal Systems EASC 3000 Global Solutions for Sustainability SYST 3388 System Engineering Concepts MECH 4415 Thermo-Fluids Laboratory MECH 4450/6670 Computational Fluid Dynamics MECH 6630 Advanced Fluids See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Department of Engineering and Applied Science Education Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering In the Media Campus Technology: Olin College Awards Grants for Bold Ideas in Remaking Ed Olin College of Engineering in Massachusetts has awards grants to several external projects working to re-envision education. The University of New Haven was part of a team that won a Grant for Remaking Education through Action Together (GREAT) grant. Maria-Isabel Carnasciali, associate professor of mechanical and industrial engineering, developed the proposal. University of New Haven professor awarded $25K for excellence in teaching in West Haven Also of Interest:Maria Torre, M.S.Michael Collura, Ph.D."Developing Entrepreneurial Thinking in... University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
