Chong Qiu, Ph. D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Chong Qiu, Ph. D. Associate Professor, Chemistry Chemical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact CQiu@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4888 1124 Campbell Ave., 102 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph. D./Chemistry, Department of Chemistry,Texas A&M University, College Station B. S./Chemistry,Department of Chemistry,Tsinghua University, Beijing, P. R. China About Chong Dr. Qiu joined the faculty of the University of New Haven in September of 2016 as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry. His primary teaching area is Analytical Chemistry, including Quantitative Analysis w/Lab and Instrumental Methods w/Lab. Prior to coming to the University of New Haven, Dr. Qiu taught at University of North Alabama. His research is focusing on atmospheric chemistry and aerosol physics, including laboratory experiments, instrumentation, field measurements and theoretical modeling and computation. In particular, he is interested in the role of amines in the atmospheric processes and the transformation of soot in the air. His research program invites students with various background in math, physics, chemistry, environmental science, and engineering (especially chemical, environmental, mechanical, electrical and computer science). Dr. Qiu also actively looks into the development of interdisciplinary research projects with other faculty members on campus and partner in our local community. Publications denotes the author was undergraduate student. Published 11. Chong Qiu, Alexei F. Khalizov, Brian Hogan, Eric L. Petersen, and Renyi Zhang, "High Sensitivity of Diesel Soot Morphological and Optical Properties to Combustion Temperature in a Shock Tube", Environmental Science&Technology2014, 48, 6444; 10. Simon Clegg, Chong Qiu, and Renyi Zhang, "The Deliquescence Behaviour, Solubilities, and Densities of Aqueous Solutions of Five Methyl- and Ethyl-Aminium Sulphate Salts", Atmospheric Environment2013, 73, 145; 9. Chong Qiu, and Renyi Zhang, "Multiphase Chemistry of Atmospheric Amines", Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics2013, 15, 5738; 8. Alexei F. Khalizov, Yun Lin, Chong Qiu, Don Collins, and Renyi Zhang, "The Role of OH-initiated Oxidation of Isoprene in Aging of Combustion Soot", Environmental Science&Technology2013, 47, 2254; 7. Chong Qiu, Alexei F. Khalizov, and Renyi Zhang, "Soot Aging from OH-Initiated Oxidation of Toluene", Environmental Science&Technology2012, 46, 9464; 6. Alexei F. Khalizov, Brian Hogan, Chong Qiu, Eric Petersen, and Renyi Zhang, "Characterization of Soot Aerosol Produced from Combustion of Propane in a Shock Tube", Aerosol Science&Technology2012, 46, 925; 5. Chong Qiu, and Renyi Zhang, "Physiochemical Properties of Alkylaminium Sulfate: Hygroscopicity, Thermostability and Density", Environmental Science&Technology2012, 46, 4474; 4. Chong Qiu, Lin Wang, Vinita Lal, Alexei F. Khalizov, and Renyi Zhang, "Heterogeneous Chemistry of Alkylamines on Ammonium Sulfate and Ammonium Bisulfate", Environmental Science&Technology2011, 45, 4748; 3. Lin Wang, Wen Xu, Alexei F. Khalizov, Jun Zheng, Chong Qiu, and Renyi Zhang, "Laboratory Investigation on the Role of Organics in Atmospheric Nanoparticle Growth", Journal Physical Chemistry A2011, 115, 8940; 2. Hui Yan, Yongtao Zhao, Chong Qiu, Hongkai Wu, "Micropatterning of Inorganic Precipitations in Hydrogels with Soft Lithography", Sensors and Actuators B: Chemistry, 2008, 132, 20; 1. Chong Qiu, Meisha Chen, Hui Yan, Hongkai Wu, "Generation of Uniformly-Sized Alginate Microparticles for Cell Encapsulation with Soft Lithographic Approach", Advanced Materials 2007,19,1603. Professional Experiences 08/2016 Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry&Chemical Engineering, University of New Haven ; 06 08/16 & 06 08/14 Visiting Scholar, Department of Chemistry and Environmental Science, New Jersey InstituteofTechnology; 01/13 08/16 Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry&Industrial Hygiene, University of North Alabama (UNA) Grants and Awards 07/2015 Co-PI, NSF-AGS Grant (Award #1463703): Collaborative Research: Kinetics and Mechanism of Restructuring of Atmospheric Soot and Associated Impact on Light Absorption, $82,927; 09/15 08/16 Co-PI, the University of North Alabama Quality Enhancement Program Grant: A Pilot Study of Collecting and Analysis of Micrometeoroids, $2000; 09/15 08/16 PI, the University of North Alabama Undergraduate Research Program: Construction of a microwave ozone spectrometer, $1000; 09/1405/15 PI, the University of North Alabama Undergraduate Research Program; Properties of Aminium Carboxylates and Their Effects on Atmospheric Aerosol, $1000; 02/13 09/15 PI, the University of North Alabama College of Arts and Sciences Research Grant, $3850; Selected Presentations denotes the presenter was undergraduate student at the time of conference. 11. Xiaolong Fan, Joseph Dawson, Chong Qiu, and Alexei F. Khalizov, "Thermostability and Hygroscopicity of Monoethanolammonium Carboxylates for Evaluating Environmental Impacts of Carbon Dioxide Sequestration by Reversible Chemical Absorption", The 252nd American Chemical Society National Meeting & Exposition, Philadelphia, PA, Aug 2016, Paper. 10. Elyse Eckl , Jacob F. Phillips, Chong Qiu, Christopher Stopera and Alexei F. Khalizov. "Modeling Optical Properties of Anthropogenic Soot with Various Morphology and Mixing States", The 252nd American Chemical Society National Meeting & Exposition, Philadelphia, PA, Aug 2016, Poster. 9. M. B. Cooper and Chong Qiu, "Construction of a Microwave Ozone Spectrometer", the 1st International Youth Environmental Symposium, EPA Region 4, Atlanta, GA, Oct 2015, Poster; 8. J. N. Dawson and Chong Qiu, "The synthesis and Property Measurements on Aminium Carboxylates", the 2014 Southwest Regional Meeting of American Chemical Society , Nashville, TN, October 2014, Paper; 7. Blade Boles and Chong Qiu, "Thermodynamic Predictions of Amine Salts and Their Influences on Aerosol Properties Using E-AIM Model", the 91st Alabama Academy of Science Meeting, Auburn, AL, March 2014, Paper; 6. Chong Qiu, Alexei F. Khalizov, and Renyi Zhang, "Impact of Secondary Organic Aerosol Formation on Soot Properties", The 245th American Chemical Society National Meeting & Exposition, New Orleans, AL, April 2013, Paper. 5. Chong Qiu, Alexei F. Khalizov, and Renyi Zhang, "Aging of Soot Aerosol from OH-Initiated Oxidation of Toluene", The American Meteorological Society Annual Meeting, Austin, TX, January 2013, Paper; 4. Chong Qiu, Simon Clegg and Renyi Zhang, "Formation of Aminium Sulfates in Atmospheric Aerosols and Impacts on Particle Properties", The Fourth Atmospheric Chemistry Mechanism Conference, Davis, CA, December 2012, Paper; 3. Chong Qiu, and Renyi Zhang, "Impacts of Aminium Sulfates on Atmospheric Aerosol Properties", The American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting, San Francisco, CA, December 2012, Poster; 2. Chong Qiu, Brian Hogan, Alexei F. Khalizov,Eric Petersen, and Renyi Zhang, "Properties of Diesel Soot Produced from Combustion in a Shock Tube", The American Chemical Society Southwest Regional Meeting, Baton Rouge, LA, November 2012, Poster; 1. Chong Qiu, Lin Wang, Alexei F. Khalizov, Vinita Lal, and Renyi Zhang, "Heterogeneous Chemistry of Alkylamines with Sulfuric Acid and Ammonium Salts: Implications for Atmospheric Formation of Alkylaminium Sulfates", The F. A. Cotton Medal Symposium, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, April 2012, Poster. Professional Services Reviewer of articles for Journal of Geophysical ResearchAtmospheres,Journal of Atmospheric Science, Environmental Science & Technology and Scientific Reports Reviewer of proposal for the National Science Foundation Professional Memberships American Chemical Society Services and Leadership 09/15 03/16 Local organizing committee of the 2016 Alabama Academy of Science Meeting; See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemistry, B.S. Chemistry, M.S. Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Department News and In the Media Faculty Awards The Charger Blog Faculty Members Honored for Scholarly Achievements, Impact on Students Nominated by their students and colleagues, five professors have been recognized for their research, leadership, and dedication to students success. In the Media New Haven Register: Area people of note: Burzenski & Company donates cat collars; West Haven presents award Chong Qiu, assistant professor of chemistry and chemical engineering, has been awarded a National Science Foundation Early Career Aware for his ground breaking research on aerosols in the atmosphere. He is the first University of New Haven faculty member to receive this. Chong Qiu, Ph.D. University News University of New Haven Professor Wins Prestigious National Science Foundation Award Chong Qiu, assistant professor of chemistry, earns National Science Foundations Early Career Award, joining recipients from Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, and NYU. In the Media WTNH-TV8: University of New Haven Professor Wins Prestigious Science Award Chong Qiu, assistant professor of chemistry, earned a National Science Foundations Early Career Award for his groundbreaking research on aerosols in atmosphere. In the Media Phys.Org: University of New Haven Professor Wins Prestigious National Science Foundation Award Chong Qiu, assistant professor in chemistry and chemical engineering, has been awarded an early career award by the National Science Foundation for his groundbreaking research on aerosols in the atmosphere. Chong Qiu, Ph.D. The Charger Blog Chemist Discusses Power of 'Citizen Science' University of New Haven Chong Qiu is incorporating University of New Haven undergraduate and graduate students, as well as middle and high school students from the region, into his research as he seeks to secure a National Science Foundation grant. Also of Interest:Ali Golbazi, Ph.D.PH.D., Engineering and Applied ScienceVirginia M. Maxwell, D.Phil. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
