Huan Gu, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Huan Gu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Chemical Engineering Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact HGu@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4869 Echlin 119D For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Chemical Engineering, Syracuse University About Huan In this coming fall, I will join the Tagliatela College of Engineering as a TT Assistant Professor in Chemical Engineering. I will teach CHME 3309 Chemical Engineering Workshop and CHME 3321 Chemical Reaction Engineering. My future research interests are understanding and engineering soft and living materials and their applications in addressing environmental and medical challenges. In 2014, I graduated from the Department of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering at Syracuse University with a Ph.D. degree in Chemical Engineering. My Ph.D. research focused on understanding and engineering bacterial biofilm formation using chemical and topographical surface modifications. Upon graduation, I received a Postdoctoral Fellowship from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to investigate bacterial biofilms in the built environments and their roles in hospital-acquired infections (HAI). During this fellowship, I employed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) and Bioinformatics to investigate how microbes acquire antibiotic resistance during HAI and applied the findings to direct the design of new antifoulings surfaces in the built environment. In 2017, I received an R21 award as a co-Investigator from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to engineer a bioinspired soft-robotic surface for long-term control of biofilms formation on medical devices. This award directs my research passion to the understanding and engineering soft and living materials and their applications in environmental and medical challenges. I have been actively involved in organizations to support females' career development. I was a faculty facilitator of the Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) at Syracuse University. I am currently a committee chair of the Mentoring and Outreaching Committee of an international organization, Graduate Women in Science. I look forward to continuing this after joining the University of New Haven. Selected Publications Shang, H.T., Gu, H., Zhang, N., From traditional to novel treatment of arthritis: A review of recent advances in nanotechnology-based thermal therapy. Nanomedicine. 2021.10.2217/nnm-2021-0182. https://doi.org/10.2217/nnm-2021-0182. Lee, S. W., Philips, K., Gu, H., Kazemzadeh-Narbat, M., Ren, D.C, How microbes read the map: effects of implant topography on bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation. Biomaterials. 120595. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biomaterials.2020.120595. Gu, H., Roy, S., Zheng, X.H., Gao, T., Ma, H.L., Soultan, Z., Fortner, C., Nangia, S., and Ren, D.C., High-level antibiotic tolerance of a clinically-isolated Enterococcus faecalis strain. Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 2020. 87(1). DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02083-20. Gu, H., Lee, S.W., Carnicelli, J., Zhang, T., and Ren, D.C. Magnetically driven active topography for long-term biofilm control. Nature Communication. 2020. 2211(11). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-16055-5. Gu, H., Lee, S. W., Carnicelli, J., Jiang, Z. W., and Ren, D. C. Antibiotic Susceptibility of Escherichia coli Changes during Early-Stage Biofilm Formation. Journal of Bacteriology. 2019. 201(18). pii: e00034-19. DOI: 10.1128/JB.00034-19. Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemical Engineering, B.S. Deparment of Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Also of Interest:Amir Esmailpour, Ph.D.Nikolas Stasulli, Ph.D.Bradley Woodworth, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
