Eric Dieckman, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Eric Dieckman, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact EDieckman@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4249 Echlin Hall 212C For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Applied Science, The College of William and Mary M.S., Architectural Acoustics, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute B.S., Physics, Truman State University About Eric Dr. Dieckman has a background in acoustic modeling, signal processing, and machine learning with a degree concentration in Nondestructive Evaluation. He is the author or co-author on more than 30 conference presentations, reports, and patent applications, covering a wide range of topics. Results from his work have been presented across the United States and in Mexico, Canada, France, and Spain. Recent projects include development of an ultrasonic system to detect counterfeit microelectronic components, design of an acoustic method to benignly exclude pest birds from a geographic area, and numerical simulations of acoustic scattering. As part of his dissertation research, Dr. Dieckman investigated a number of sensor modalities for mobile robotics applications, including passive thermal infrared, active near-infrared depth-mapping, a coffee-can radar, and echolocation using an acoustic parametric array. This work identified a new low-cost, long-range acoustic echolocation sensor which, coupled with advanced signal processing and machine learning algorithms, allows the automated detection and classification of oncoming vehicles at distances exceeding 50 m. Dr. Dieckman is a co-founder of the Wavelet Signal Processing and Nondestructive Evaluation Systems Testing (WaSP-NEST) Lab at the Sonalysts Waterford campus, where he is directing the exploration of new methods of ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation of complex structures using advanced signal processing and machine learning approaches. Recent projects include guided wave ultrasonic inspection of thermal-spray coatings for ship structures, Pareto optimization of UUV operations, data mining of sonar operator performance metrics, and physical modeling of satellite motion for software training systems. See More See Less Selected Publications and Presentations Automated classification of oncoming ground vehicles using acoustic echolocation and supervised machine learning (with M. Hinders), Invited for The 167th Meeting of the Acoustical Society of America, Providence, RI, 6 May 2014 Benign exclusion of birds using acoustic parametric arrays (with E. Skinner, G. Mahjoub, J. Swaddle, and M. Hinders), The 165th Meeting of the Acoustical Society of America and 21st International Congress on Acoustics, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, 6 June 2013 Acoustic echolocation for mobile robots with parametric arrays (with M.Hinders), Invited for the Acoustical Society of Americas World-Wide Press Room at the 164th Meeting in Kansas City, MO 22-26 October 2012 High-frequency contact ultrasound for subsurface characterization of microelectronics (with M. Hinders and J. Stevens), The 19th Annual Research Symposium and Spring Meeting of the American Society of Nondestructive Testing, Williamsburg, VA, 23 March 2010 Porous material parameter estimation: A Bayesian approach (with C. Fackler and N. Xiang), Proceedings of MaxEnt 2011 31st International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, Waterloo, Canada, 10-15 July 2011 Spatially enveloping reverberation in sound fixing, processing, and room-acoustic simulations using coded sequences (with N. Xiang and U. Trivedi), U.S. Patent Application #12/615,655, Filed 10 Nov 2009 See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Also of Interest:James Marcus, Ph.D.Mohsen Sarraf, Ph.D.Douglas Ficek, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
