Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact VBehzadan@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4723 Maxcy Hall 120A Personal Pages Personal Page SAIL Lab Research Group For the Media Email Media Relations About Vahid Vahid Behzadan is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Data Science. He is also the founder and director of the Secure and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) research group, and mentors the University's hacking team. Dr. Behzadan's research is primarily on the safety and security of artificial intelligence and complex adaptive systems. His pioneering work on the security of deep reinforcement learning is recognized as seminal contributions to this growing field of research. Dr. Behzadan's recent work includes publications on the applications of machine learning to security and safety assessment of complex systems, such as driverless cars, unmanned aerial systems, and smart cities. He has presented numerous invited talks on the security of machine learning, and applications of data science in cybersecurity at venues such as the Open Web Application Security Project (OWSAP) foundation, the Black Hat conference, and UK's Transportation Research Laboratory (TRL). His research on the psychopathological approach to AI safety has been featured in national and international news. Dr. Behzadan received his Ph.D. from Kansas State University, where he also co-founded the K-State AI Safety Research Initiative. Previously, he was at the Computer Networking Lab, University of Nevada in Reno and the Microwave research group at the University of Birmingham, UK. He received his B. Eng. in computer and communication systems engineering from the University of Birmingham, UK, and his M.S. in computer science from the University of Nevada, Reno. See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Engineering and Applied Science, Ph.D. Cybersecurity and Networks, B.S. Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. Data Science, M.S. News and In the Media Vahid Behzadan on Investigative TV In the Media Investigative TV: Patient Privacy: Millions of Americans are victims of medical data breaches each year Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, talks about how to help protect your personal information from cybercrime and data breaches. Vahid Behzadan on WICC 600 In the Media WICC 600: Melissa in the Morning: Cookies beware! Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity, computer and electrical engineering, talks about cookies and how websites use them to track activity online. Vahid Behzadan on the Milford Mirror In the Media The Milford Mirror: Data breaches on the rise, data shows, threatening more CT residents Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, says it is not hard to break into a computer, but if the hackers can get away with it. In the Media WICC 600: Melissa in the Morning: Somebodys Watching Me Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, talks about the risks of smart TVs and how to protect yourself from hackers. In the Media Clearance Jobs: Is the CIA Investing in Wickr's Encrypted Communications Platform? Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, comments on possible reasons the CIA may have purchased the encrypted messaging platform Wickr. In the Media Fox News - Dallas: Hackers threaten Allen ISD families after cyberattack Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about cybercriminal activity using extortion seems to be on the rise across the country. In the Media Investigate TV: Consumer Crackdown on What's App Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about the popular app "What's App" and some security features to help protect your privacy. In the Media WICC 600: Phishing and Passwords - Interview w. Melissa in the Morning Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, talks about phishing and specific measures to reduce the probability of them succeeding. In the Media The Rude Awakening: Interview with Dr. Vahid Behzadan Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about cybersecurity, AI, cryptocurrency origins and computer hacking. In the Media WICC 600: Connecticut Today with Paul Pacelli on Ransomware Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and network, data science and computer engineering, talks about the recent targets and frequency of ransomware attacks. In the Media NBC Connecticut: Amazon Sidewalk Debuts Today Amid Privacy Concerns for Some Device Owners Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about possible security issues for users of Amazon Sidewalk. In the Media News 8 WTNH: With most of our life online, how can you protect yourself from a cyberattack? Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science and computer engineering, talks about how to protect personal information from cyber thieves. In the Media News 8 WTNH: University of New Haven professor details deep fakes from hackers manipulating photos and videos Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, talks about the use of deep fakes and how hard they are to detect. In the Media BuzzFeed: Venmo Exposes All The Old Profile Photos You Thought Were Gone Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor for cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, comments on how the app failed to provide users with a level of control over their data. In the Media BuzzFeed: We Found Joe Bidens Secret Venmo. Heres Why Thats A Privacy Nightmare For Everyone. Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of cybersecurity and networks, data science, and computer engineering, comments on the Venmo app and the security exposure for President Biden and his family. In the Media New York Post: Bidens secret Venmo account reportedly found in less than 10 minutes Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor for cybersecurity and computer engineering, comments on the vulnerability from using an app, like President Biden did with his Venmo account. In the Media WICC 600: Connecticut Today with Paul Pacelli Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and computer science, talks about the cyberattack on the Colonial Pipeline. In the Media AVA 360 News: US & Russia at odds over limiting weapons in space Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and computer science, talks about how AI has become a part of warfare with autonomous weapons. In the Media Tech World News: Commission Issues Blueprint to Boost AI Prowess in US Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer and electrical engineering and computer science, comments on the readiness of the US to compete internationally on AI. In the Media Nextgov: Electromagnetic pulses are frequently boogeymen in pop culture but the federal government takes real steps to prepare for them. Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the feasibility of electromagnetic pulses used to disable security systems and computer equipment. In the Media Clearance Jobs: DARPA Influence Brings Military Technology Straight Out of Sci-Fi Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the military being one of the largest sources of funding for applied science and engineering research. In the Media Fox 61 News: CT Computer Scientist discusses odds of winning Powerball, Mega Millions Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the odds of winning the big jackpots. In the Media Fox News: Russia's suspected hacking operation targeted 5 US agencies, 18K entities Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments that the cyber-attack on U.S. agencies appears to be mainly espionage by Russia. In the Media NBC Connecticut: Officials Warn Connecticut's Unemployed About Fraud Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the concern of the phishing scam that was launched against the Department of Labor. In the Media SAIL-Lab: Combating Human Trafficking via Automated Intelligence Collection, Validation, and Fusion Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, has partnered with Love Justice International to develop machine learning tools for monitoring and tracking indicators of human trafficking on social media and online. In the Media Tech World News: Controversial Plan Urges DoD to Recruit Tech Pros to WFH Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments how the lack of physical supervision and inspection can compromise the DoDs core mission. In the Media NBC Connecticut: Pandemic Leads to Higher Demand for Computers Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the demand for laptops and tablets amid the pandemic. In the Media Newsday: LI artificial intelligence startup can write your emails Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the concern this type of tools has for spamming or fake news. In the Media NBC Connecticut: Classes Begin in Hartford After Ransomware Attack Postponed First Day of School Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about this type of malware and the effect on computers. In the Media Fox61: Schools becoming common targets of Ransomware attacks Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the recent ransomware attack on the Hartford Public School system and what it means. In the Media NBC Connecticut: Ransomware Attacks City of Hartford Servers, Postpones First Day of School Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about how ransomware infects data. In the Media NBC Connecticut: Contact Tracing Apps Prompt Privacy Concerns Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about how the aggregation of data may reveal your identity. In the Media Connecticut Magazine: How to protect your digital castle from scammers Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on growing numbers of fraud as more people are working from home. In the Media Lars Larson Show: Vahid Behzadan We are seeing a massive increase in cyber-attacks during the Coronavirus lockdown Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, discusses the recent types of cyber-attacks, including ransomware. In the Media Unite.AI: Vahid Behzadan, Director of Secured and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) Lab Interview Series Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, gave an in-depth interview on cybersecurity, AI and as the director of the Secure and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) Lab. In the Media Voice of America: Most of the employees of the US Department of Defense work at home and foreign cyber espionage surges Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the security risks for using Zoom at the Department of Defense. In the Media Information Security Buzz: U.S. Health Agency Suffers Cyber-Attack Expert Reaction Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, discusses the recent cyberattack on HHS. In the Media CT Insider: On the front lines of coronavirus: CT experts talk Summer Johnson McGee, dean of the School of Health Sciences, and Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer science in the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discuss how coronavirus is impacting their field of expertise. Coronavirus Analysis The Charger Blog University of New Haven Professors Analysis of Coronavirus Goes Far Beyond Public Health Faculty members from across the University are joining School of Health Sciences public health researchers in sharing their expertise in areas ranging from the economy and technology to travel and tourism to examine the global impact of the coronavirus outbreak. In the Media Forbes: Coronavirus: Can AI (Artificial Intelligence) Make A Difference? Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer science, discusses leveraging recent advances in AI for enhancement of vaccine strategies. In the Media AXIOS: AI might need a therapist, too Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, discusses the possible need of psychology for AI in the future. In the Media CNET: Will AI need therapy in the future? A paper written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, Psychopathological Approach to Safety Engineering in AI and AGI is discussed. In the Media Huff Post France: Il faudra bientt des psychologues pour intelligence artificielle, selon ces chercheurs A paper about the future need of AI psychologists, written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, is discussed. In the Media Soundcloud: ABC News Interview Listen to the ABC News Interview Recording with Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, about the future need of AI psychologists. In the Media Yahoo! actualites: Il faudra bientt des psychologues pour intelligence artificielle, selon ces chercheurs A paper written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, about the future need of AI psychologists is discussed. Also of Interest:Nikolas Stasulli, Ph.D.Bradley Woodworth, Ph.D.Erica Haskell, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
