M. Ali Montazer, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item M. Ali Montazer, Ph.D. Professor, Industrial and Systems Engineering Industrial & System Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact AMontazer@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7050 Echlin 109 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., University at Buffalo - State University of New York (SUNY) M.S. Industrial Engineering/Human Factors, University at Buffalo - SUNY B.S. in Industrial Engineering (Cum Laude), University at Buffalo - SUNY About Ali Program coordinator for Undergraduate Industrial and Systems Engineering Graduate program coordinator for Engineering and Operations Management and Industrial Engineering Dr. M. Ali Montazer is currently a Professor of Industrial Engineering in the Tagliatela College of Engineering. He previously served as the Tagliatela College of Engineering interim dean (12/2010-7/2011), Associate Dean (2007-2010), IE department Chair 1992-98 and again during 2003-2006. He earned the BSIE (Cum Laude), MSIE and the Ph.D. from the University at Buffalo. He was awarded the University's Distinguished Teaching Award in 1988; has taught in the areas of production and operations research and management, statistical methods, ergonomics, and simulation and modeling; has also taught in the University's MBA, Executive MBA and the former Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM) Programs. His current research and industry project interests include simulation modeling of production systems and business operations, statistical methods and lean /six sigma initiatives; has worked on lean and simulation modeling projects with the Bilco Company, Consolidated Industries, Valley Tool & Manufacturing, Remington Products Company, and Unilever (Clinton, CT). Published Books and Articles Improving the Repair and Maintenance Work Order Process at a VA Hospital, (co-authors: Scott M. Weber, Kimberly Severino), accepted for presentation at the POMS annual conference in Seattle, WA, May 2017 From Schewhart-Deming Cycle to Lean Six Sigma: Robust tools for Healthcare Quality and Cost Improvment, accepted for presentation at the POMS annual conference in Seattle, WA, May 2017 "Lateral-Longitudinal Position Distribution in Non-visual Target Aiming", submitted to Ergonomics, July 2010, (co-authors H. Shahriari and N. Beheshti)"System Engineering - a new multidisciplinary program", New England - ASEE Annual Conference, University of Rhode Island, April 2007 (co-author Barry J. Farbrother) "Institutionalizing Experiential Education", presented at the Annual Conference of the National Society for Experiential Education, Seattle, WA, November 2007 (Co-presenter Christie Boronico)"Simulation Modeling in Operations Management: A Sampling of Applications", Proceedings of the 14th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society, April 2-5, 2003, Savannah, Georgia (Co-authors Kursad Ece, and Hakan Alp)"A Feasibility Study for Implementing a Cellular Manufacturing Solution for a Foil Cutter Production Line", Proceedings of the 12th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society, March 30- April 2, 2001, Orlando, Florida (Co-author Alan J. Peterson) "Performance Analysis of a High-Speed Production Line Using Simulation", Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society, April 1-4, 2000,San Antonio TX (Co-author Troy W. Turner). Courses Taught Simulation Modeling Applied Engineering Statistics Operations Research Queuing Theory Linear Programming Nonlinear Programming Human Factors Engineering Business Statistics Introduction to Engineering Executive level courses in: Probability, Statistics, Quality, Simulation, and Lean See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering, B.S. Engineering & Operations Management, M.S. Industrial Engineering, M.S. Also of Interest:Ali Golbazi, Ph.D.Shue Wang, Ph.D.Ali Jafarian, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
