Nathan Seifert, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Nathan Seifert, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Chemistry Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact NSeifert@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4886 Echlin 119B For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Physical Chemistry, University of Virginia B.A., Chemistry, Amherst College About Nathan Nathan Seifert joined the faculty of the University of New Haven in August 2021. His research interests since graduate school have focused on the development of chirped pulse Fourier transform microwave (CP-FTMW) spectroscopic techniques, and applications of CP-FTMW spectroscopy for both physical chemistry and analytical applications. Though much of his previous research has been on the experimental aspects of molecular spectroscopy, Nathan has a strong interest in applying data science and machine learning techniques for the automated interpretation of molecular spectra in analytical chemistry and structure determination. Nathans research at the University of New Haven going forward will center on development of a low-cost CP-FTMW spectrometer for structure determination and chemical mixture analysis, and the development of software and machine learning techniques for digital signal processing, spectral assignment, structure elucidation, and novel improvements to the software-hardware instrument interface. Selected Publications D. P. Zaleski, R. Sivaramakrishnan, H. R. Weller, N. A. Seifert, D. H. Bross, B. Ruscic, K. B. Moore III, S. N. Elliott, A. V. Copan, L. B. Harding, S. J. Klippenstein, R. W. Field, K. Prozument, Substitution Reactions in the Pyrolysis of Acetone Revealed through a Modeling, Experiment, Theory Paradigm, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 3124-3142. F. Xie, N. A. Seifert, W. Jger, Y. Xu, Conformational Panorama and Chirality Controlled StructureEnergy Relationship in a Chiral Carboxylic Acid Dimer, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 15703-15710. 3) N. A. Seifert, A. S. Hazrah, W. Jger, The 1-Naphthol Dimer and Its Surprising Preference for Stacking over Hydrogen Bonding, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2019, 10, 2836-2841. S. Oswald, N. A. Seifert, F. Bohle, M. Gawrilow, S. Grimme, W. Jger, Y. Xu, M. A. Suhm, The Chiral Trimer and a Metastable Chiral Dimer of Achiral Hexafluoroisopropanol: A MultiMessenger Study, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 131, 5134 N. A. Seifert, J. Thomas, W. Jger, Y. Xu, Rotational spectra and theoretical study of tetramers and trimers of 2-fluoroethanol: dramatic intermolecular compensation for intramolecular instability, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2018, 20, 27630-27637. J. Thomas, N. A. Seifert, W. Jger, Y. Xu, A Direct Link from the Gas to the Condensed Phase: A Rotational Spectroscopic Study of 2, 2, 2Trifluoroethanol Trimers, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2017, 129, 6386-6390. N. A. Seifert, I. A. Finneran, C. Prez, D. P. Zaleski, J. L. Neill, A. L. Steber, R. D. Suenram, A. Lesarri, S. T. Shipman, B. H. Pate, AUTOFIT, an automated fitting tool for broadband rotational spectra, and applications to 1-hexanal, J. Mol. Spectrosc. 2015, 312, 13-21. C. Prez, D. P. Zaleski, N. A. Seifert, B. Temelso, G. C. Shields, Z. Kisiel, B. H. Pate, Hydrogen Bond Cooperativity and the ThreeDimensional Structures of Water Nonamers and Decamers, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2014, 126, 14596-14600 C. Prez, S. Lobsiger, N. A. Seifert, D. P. Zaleski, B. Temelso, G. C. Shields, Z. Kisiel, B. H. Pate, Broadband Fourier transform rotational spectroscopy for structure determination: The water heptamer, Chem. Phys. Lett. 2013, 571, 1-15. C. Prez, M. T. Muckle, D. P. Zaleski, N. A. Seifert, B. Temelso, G. C. Shields, Z. Kisiel, B. H. Pate, Structures of cage, prism, and book isomers of water hexamer from broadband rotational spectroscopy, Science 2012, 336, 897-901. Full publication list can be found at http://goo.gl/6rP8YQ See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemical Engineering, B.S. Deparment of Chemistry and Chemical & Biomedical Engineering Also of Interest:Nikolas Stasulli, Ph.D.Bradley Woodworth, Ph.D.Erica Haskell, Ph.D. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
