Superfine, Richard | Applied Physical Sciences Skip to main content Toggle navigation Applied Physical Sciences ABOUT Home Our Department Diversity & Inclusion Events BeAM Makerspace CHANL Contact Us Find Us Intranet PEOPLE Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Meet our Recent Alumni Current Students GRADUATE Program Overview Apply to APS Ph.D. Requirements Courses New Graduate Student Information Graduate Professional Development Materials Research Society Spring 2022 Graduate Course Listing UNDERGRADUATE APSE Minor Undergraduate Courses Spring 2022 Undergraduate Course Listing ENTREPRENEURIAL MINDSET HOME EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant News KEEN Contact RESEARCH Computation Energy & Water COVID-19 Instrumentation & Light-Matter Interactions Materials Science & Engineering Soft Matter & Living Systems Translational Engineering Publications Archive GIVE APPLY NOW Home / Faculty Members / Superfine, Richard Superfine, Richard March 29, 2018 By Lars Sahl Richard Superfine Taylor-Williams Distinguished Professor; Chair of the Department of Applied Physical Sciences Murray Hall 1111 superfine@unc.edu 919-843-8933 Research Interest: Stimulus-Responsive Active and Living Materials CURRICULUM VITAE GROUP PAGE GOOGLE SCHOLAR Professional Background Lehigh University, BS Engineering Physics 82; UC Berkeley, PhD Physics 91 Research Synopsis Professor Richard Superfine studies stimulus-responsive active and living materials from the scale of individual molecules to the scale of physiological tissues, including molecular motors, DNA, cells and microfluidic-based tissue models. He develops and applies new techniques for these studies using optical, scanning probe, electron and magnetic force microscopes, all within his leadership of the NIH National Center of Computer Integrated Systems for Microscopy and Manipulation, CISMM. Current experiments probe the mechanical properties of single molecules in blood clots, cancer and immune cells, and in cell cultures to understand the fluid flows that clear the lung of infections. His work often involves developing biomimetic structures that mimic biology, most recently in the form of engineered cilia arrays that mimic lung tissue. Soft Matter Superfine studies the rheological and transport properties of viscoelastic materials, both engineered and living. He engineers soft actuating structures using lithographic and templating methods, designs actuating systems to create shape changing surfaces that mix and propel fluids while also sensing their properties. Within the context of living systems, he studies biological cells to understand how they respond to and generate forces to move, to establish their own identity and to communicate with neighboring cells and tissue. Microfabricated Platforms for Sorting and Cloning Cells Superfine uses engineered biomimetic actuating surfaces to enable novel diagnostic devices for biomedicine. This includes test strip based clot strength diagnostics for therapy decisions in surgery and trauma, and DNA and protein based array assays for personalized medicine. Transport of nanoparticles, whether viruses or nanoparticle delivery systems, through viscoelastic matrices such as mucus and extracellular matrix, is studied to enable effective drug transport and where needed the promoting the integrity of innate barriers. Professor Superfine enjoys seeing his research have impact in the world through patents and his start-up company Redbud Labs, Inc., that is developing point of care medical diagnostic technologies. He also serves as the director of BeAM@UNC, the network of makerspaces at UNC Chapel Hill that champions experiential education, research, entrepreneurship and celebrates creativity and innovation for everyone at UNC. Applied Physical Sciences lives in the collaborative space between science and engineering, combining knowledge and discovery with an engineering mindset, team-based science, and entrepreneurship to address real-world problems. The Department of Applied Physical Sciences believes that diversity, equity, and inclusion are crucial to our pursuit of excellence, and is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community. Contact Us! Department of Applied Physical Sciences University of North Carolina 1112 Murray Hall, CB#3050 Graduate Program Contacts For General Inquiries, contact appsci@unc.edu For Materials Science graduate program information, contact Le To Social Network If you want to be kept up to date about what is going on, give us a follow! 2021 Applied Physical Sciences
