Byungik Chang, Ph.D., P.E., MBA - University of New Haven Skip to main content COVID-19 INFO Campus COVID-19 Info Based on the vaccination data submitted by students and employees, we have created in collaboration with offices and departments across campus comprehensive policies and procedures that will be in place throughout the Fall 2021 semester to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our community and on our experience as Chargers. Fall 2021 Info and PoliciesCOVID-19 Info CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate All Visit Opportunities Graduate All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main COVID-19 Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library Academic Calendar and Course Schedules Course Catalog See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation See More Commuter Resources Graduate and International Students Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Association Alumni Benefits Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Magazine Alumni Networks Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Close Menu Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Byungik Chang, Ph.D., P.E., MBA Professor, Civil Engineering Chair of Civil and Environmental Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact BChang@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4234 Maxcy 118 B-4 For the Media Email Media Relations Education M.B.A in General Business, West Texas A&M University Ph.D. in Civil Engineering (Structural Engineering), Iowa State University M.S. in Civil Engineering (Structural Engineering), Iowa State University B.S. in Civil Engineering, Iowa State University About Byungik Dr. Byungik Chang joined the Department of Mechanical, Civil, and Environmental Engineering as an Associate Professor of Civil Engineering in Fall 2013. Dr. Changs background and research activities are in the areas of structural engineering, wind engineering, and wind energy. He received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. in Civil engineering from Iowa State University in 2002, 2004, and 2007, respectively. Dr. Chang was also awarded his MBA degree from West Texas A&M University in 2012. His doctoral work focused on addressing a critical need related to the unexpected failure of slender light poles. Prior research from his masters degree work at Iowa State University included design verification, behavior analysis, and nonlinear modeling of an incrementally launched bridge to obtain roller-girder contact stresses using the finite element method. Before Dr. Byungik Chang joined the University of New Haven, he worked as an Assistant Professor in the School of Engineering and Computer Science and a Director of the Alternative Energy Institute at West Texas A&M University. Dr. Chang also worked for the Arizona Department of Transportation for two years. He is a registered professional engineer in Arizona. Dr. Byungik Chang and his wife, Hyesun (Sunny) Cheong, have two children: Eugene and Justin. Dr. Chang enjoys playing tennis, basketball, racquetball, soccer, and other sports. See More See Less Selected Publications T. Chanmalai and B. Chang*, K. Misaro, S. Hagos, and T. Hanumanthareddy. Development of a Nomogram to Predict the Maximum Contact Stress Between a bridge I-Girder and a Support Roller, Engineering Solid Mechanics, Vol. 9, 2021. https://doi.org/10.5267/j.esm.2021.7.001 M. Bhalala, M. Shaker, Q. Kargar, and B. Chang*. Evaluation of Alternative Concrete Strength and Economic Analysis, Sustainability, Vol. 12, 2020. https://doi.org/10.3390/su12176746 C. Ong, B. Chang*, M. Carnasciali, R. Gorthala. Development of Aerodynamic Parameters for a Multi-sided cylinder using Computational Fluid Dynamics, Journal of Wind Engineering and Industrial Aerodynamics, Vol. 199, 2020. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jweia.2020.104130 C. Ong, B. Chang*, and J. Lee Thermal Induced Fatigue on Overhead Truss Structures, ASCE Journal of Performance of Construction and Facilities, Vol. 34, No. 2, 2020. https://doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)CF.1943-5509.0001416 B. Chang* and K. Starcher. Evaluation of Wind and Solar Energy Investments in Texas, Renewable Energy, 132, 2019, pp. 1348-1359. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2018.09.037 R. Issa* and B. Chang. Performance Study on Evacuated Tubular Collector Coupled Solar Still in West Texas Climate, International Journal of Green Energy, Volume 14, Issue 10, 2017, 793-800. J. Lee, B. Chang*, C. Aktas, and R. Gorthala. Economic Feasibility of Campus-Wide Photovoltaic Systems in New England. Renewable Energy. 99, 2016, pp. 452-464. R. Issa*, K. Leitch, and B. Chang, "Experimental Heat Transfer Study on Green Roofs in a Semiarid Climate during Summer," Journal of Construction Engineering, Vol. 2015, 2015. B. Chang*, M. Bourland, T. Couch, H. Zou, and T. Jung Evaluation of Texas Superheavy Load Criteria for Bridges. ASCE Journal of Performance of Construction and Facilities, Vol. 29, No. 4, 2015. W. Bai, B. Chang*, G. Chen, K. Starcher, D. Carr, and R. Issa. Small Wind Turbine Power Performance Testing with Uncertainty Analysis Advanced Materials Research, Vol. 857-877, 2014, pp. 1944-1948. B. Chang*, B. Phares, H. Zou, and T. Couch Thermal Analysis of a Highway Overhead Support Structure Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2406, TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D.C., 2014, pp. 32-41. B. Chang*, R. Issa, M. Neill, and A. Miller Development of Wind Vortex Shedding Coefficients for a Multisided Cylinder Structure Fatigue Design. Wind and Structures, Vol. 18, No. 2, 2014. Y. Xie, B. Chang*, K. Starcher, D. Carr, G. Chen, and K. Leitch Installation of 42kW Solar Photovoltaics and 50kW Wind Turbine Systems Journal of Green Building, Vol. 8, Issue 3, 2013. G. Romig, B. Chang*, K. Leitch, and A. Hunt. Analysis of internet visitors on educational websites American International Journal of Social Science, Vol. 2, No. 5, 2013. B. Chang*, K. Starcher, D. Carr, and A. Miller Renewables in the Desert Southwest: Sustainable, Suitable, and Supplementary Journal of Green Building, Vol. 8, Issue 2, 2013. A. Miller, B. Chang*, R. Issa, and G. Chen Review of Computer-Aided Numerical Simulation in Wind Energy, Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews, Vol. 25, 2013. D. Leer, B. Chang*, G. Chen, D. Carr, K. Starcher, and R. Issa. Windtane contour map of the state of Texas Renewable Energy, Vol. 58, 2013. B. Chang*, K. Mirtalaei, S. Lee, and K. Leitch, Optimization of Post-Tensioned Box Girder Bridges with Special References to Use of High Strength Concrete Using AASHTO LRFD Method. Advances in Civil Engineering, Volume 2012, 2012 R. Issa* and B. Chang, Performance Prediction of a Multi-Stage Wind Tower for Indoor Cooling. Journal of Thermal Science, Vol. 21, No. 4, 2012. B. Chang*, K. Mirtalaei, S. Lee, and K. Leitch, Structural Behavior and Design of Barrier-Overhang Connection in Concrete Bridge Superstructures Using AASHTO LRFD Method. Advances in Civil Engineering, Volume 2012, 2012. B. Chang*, P. P. Sarkar, and B. M. Phares, Aerodynamic Model in Time-domain for Predicting Aerodynamic Loads on a Slender Support Structure. The ASCE Journal of Engineering Mechanics, Vol. 136, No. 6, 2010, pp. 736-746. B. Chang*, B. M. Phares, P. P. Sarkar, and T. J. Wipf, Development of a Procedure for Fatigue Design of Slender Support Structures Subjected to Wind-induced Vibration. Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2131, TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D.C., 2009, pp. 23-33. (Note: * denotes 'Corresponding Author') Teaching Interests Dr. Chang's teaching interests are in structural analysis, steel/reinforced concrete design, bridge design, wind engineering, and others. He has been teaching fundamentals of engineering, statics, mechanics of materials, structural analysis, steel design, computer-aided structural analysis, computer-aided draft design, robotics, computer programming, and plastics and composites. Research Interests Dr. Changs research has been focused on structural engineering, wind engineering, and wind energy. His strength is in numerical modeling and structural analysis for civil engineering applications. He has worked on several state highway agency projects assisted by graduate and undergraduate students. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Civil Engineering, B.S. Civil Engineering, M.S. Civil and Environmental Engineering Department In the Media Point2Homes: Buying a House: The Step-by-Step Guide Every Homebuyer Needs Byungik Chang, associate professor of civil engineering, comments on the structural inspection list buyers should review before purchasing a home. Also of Interest:Master of Business Administration Master of...Maria-Isabel Carnasciali, Ph.D.Ronald S. Harichandran, Ph.D., P.E., F.ASCE University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 COVID-19 Info News Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Alumni Email Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Send Us Feedback Online Privacy Statement Online Accessibility Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
