Freeman, Ronit | Applied Physical Sciences Skip to main content Toggle navigation Applied Physical Sciences ABOUT Home Our Department Diversity & Inclusion Events BeAM Makerspace CHANL Contact Us Find Us Intranet PEOPLE Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Meet our Recent Alumni Current Students GRADUATE Program Overview Apply to APS Ph.D. Requirements Courses New Graduate Student Information Graduate Professional Development Materials Research Society Spring 2022 Graduate Course Listing UNDERGRADUATE APSE Minor Undergraduate Courses Spring 2022 Undergraduate Course Listing ENTREPRENEURIAL MINDSET HOME EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant News KEEN Contact RESEARCH Computation Energy & Water COVID-19 Instrumentation & Light-Matter Interactions Materials Science & Engineering Soft Matter & Living Systems Translational Engineering Publications Archive GIVE APPLY NOW Home / Faculty Members / Freeman, Ronit Freeman, Ronit May 2, 2018 By Lars Sahl Ronit Freeman Associate Professor Caudill Laboratories 159 ronifree@email.unc.edu 919-962-5718 Research Interest: Biomaterials and Self-Assembly CURRICULUM VITAE GROUP PAGE GOOGLE SCHOLAR Professional Background Bar-Ilan University, B.Sc., 2005; The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, M.Sc., 2007; The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, PhD, 2012; Northwestern University, 2013-2018 Research Synopsis Peptides and DNA represent two of the most attractive categories of molecules for the construction of nanomaterials for biology and medicine. Peptides provide a rich palette of biological functionality and self-assembly behavior and DNA can be used to construct complex nanostructures with programmable, dynamic properties. Dr. Freeman has sought to merge the advantages of these two molecular platforms through the use of peptide-DNA, P-DNA, hybrid biomaterials and utilize them to mimic the extracellular environment. The reversibility and tunability enabled by the DNA will be new handles for us to study dynamic properties of soft materials. Applied Physical Sciences lives in the collaborative space between science and engineering, combining knowledge and discovery with an engineering mindset, team-based science, and entrepreneurship to address real-world problems. The Department of Applied Physical Sciences believes that diversity, equity, and inclusion are crucial to our pursuit of excellence, and is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community. Contact Us! Department of Applied Physical Sciences University of North Carolina 1112 Murray Hall, CB#3050 Graduate Program Contacts For General Inquiries, contact appsci@unc.edu For Materials Science graduate program information, contact Le To Social Network If you want to be kept up to date about what is going on, give us a follow! 2021 Applied Physical Sciences
