Yan, Zijie | Applied Physical Sciences Skip to main content Toggle navigation Applied Physical Sciences ABOUT Home Our Department Diversity & Inclusion Events BeAM Makerspace CHANL Contact Us Find Us Intranet PEOPLE Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Meet our Recent Alumni Current Students GRADUATE Program Overview Apply to APS Ph.D. Requirements Courses New Graduate Student Information Graduate Professional Development Materials Research Society Spring 2022 Graduate Course Listing UNDERGRADUATE APSE Minor Undergraduate Courses Spring 2022 Undergraduate Course Listing ENTREPRENEURIAL MINDSET HOME EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant News KEEN Contact RESEARCH Computation Energy & Water COVID-19 Instrumentation & Light-Matter Interactions Materials Science & Engineering Soft Matter & Living Systems Translational Engineering Publications Archive GIVE APPLY NOW Home / Faculty Members / Yan, Zijie Yan, Zijie July 19, 2019 By Zijie Yan Assistant Professor Caudill Laboratories 159 zijieyan@unc.edu 919-843-5056 Research Interest: Optical Trapping and Manipulation, Holography, Microfluidics, Electronic and Photonics Nanomaterials GROUP PAGE GOOGLE SCHOLAR Professional Background Huazhong University of Science and Technology - Dual B.S. Materials Science and Engineering, Computer Science (2005); M.S. Physical Electronics (2007); Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute - Ph.D. Materials Engineering (2011); University of Chicago - Postdoc (2011-2015); Clarkson University - Assistant Professor (2015-2019) Research Synopsis Our research goal is to transcend the boundary between photonics and materials science by developing new techniques to control light-matter interactions at the nanometer scale. We are exploring advanced optical approaches to precisely manipulate nanoscopic objects and create artificial material assemblies with emergent properties. Our research topics include: Optical trapping, binding and sorting Synthesis and fabrication of nanostructures Holographic laser beam shaping Electrodynamics simulations Nano-bio interactions Optofluidics Applied Physical Sciences lives in the collaborative space between science and engineering, combining knowledge and discovery with an engineering mindset, team-based science, and entrepreneurship to address real-world problems. The Department of Applied Physical Sciences believes that diversity, equity, and inclusion are crucial to our pursuit of excellence, and is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community. Contact Us! Department of Applied Physical Sciences University of North Carolina 1112 Murray Hall, CB#3050 Graduate Program Contacts For General Inquiries, contact appsci@unc.edu For Materials Science graduate program information, contact Le To Social Network If you want to be kept up to date about what is going on, give us a follow! 2021 Applied Physical Sciences
