Faculty Learning Community | Applied Physical Sciences Skip to main content Toggle navigation Applied Physical Sciences ABOUT Home Our Department Diversity & Inclusion Events BeAM Makerspace CHANL Contact Us Find Us Intranet PEOPLE Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Meet our Recent Alumni Current Students GRADUATE Program Overview Apply to APS Ph.D. Requirements Courses New Graduate Student Information Graduate Professional Development Materials Research Society Spring 2022 Graduate Course Listing UNDERGRADUATE APSE Minor Undergraduate Courses Spring 2022 Undergraduate Course Listing ENTREPRENEURIAL MINDSET HOME EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant News KEEN Contact RESEARCH Computation Energy & Water COVID-19 Instrumentation & Light-Matter Interactions Materials Science & Engineering Soft Matter & Living Systems Translational Engineering Publications Archive GIVE APPLY NOW Home / Entrepreneurial Mindset / Faculty Learning Community Faculty Learning Community UNC KEEN Faculty Learning Community Implementing Entrepreneurial Minded Learning into your Courses The goal of this FLC is to support faculty to integrate entrepreneurial minded learning (EML) into their courses. These techniques focus around the 3Cs: Curiosity, Connections, and Creating Value. The FLC is designed to share tools and strategies into facultys existing teaching to help support students to develop an entrepreneurial mindset. By the end of the FLC, faculty participants will be able to Apply EML techniques into their courses. Design an activity or module integrating entrepreneurial-minded learning. Create an activity or module for their courses with the creation of a KEEN Card. The FLC consists of a group of faculty from STEM disciplines. Facilitators guide the FLC members through the design of the activity/module including learning objectives, assessment, and resources. The program meets seven times throughout the year. In each meeting, FLC members learn about EML pedagogies, practices, and strategies to teach and assess students learning. UNC experts related to making, assessment, and character are also sharing their insight and implementation of EML. Ive looked for ways to bring my industrial product development experience into the classroom and this hasntalways met with success. However, the KEEN FLC has given me a new framework inwhich to maneuver. The KEEN pedagogy on entrepreneurial mindset, along with its emphasis on curiosity,connections, and creating value, provides me with an inventive new process to achieve my primary course goal fostering the skillsets my students must have to excel in a modern, forward-thinking, and collaborative workforce. Dr. Stefan Jeglinski, Physics & Astronomy faculty member KEEN FLC 2021-2022 Award Amount: Participants receive a $5,000 stipend Application Deadline: July 16, 2021 Faculty Learning Communities: Award recipients will take part in regularly scheduled FLC meetings seven times throughout the year. These meetings will allow faculty from all disciplines to share ideas, problems, and solutions around the development and/or implementation of EML into their course. Click here to apply KEEN FLC Members 2021-2022 Dr. Wubin Bai, Assistant Professor, Applied Physical Sciences Dr. Mara Evans, STEM Teaching Associate Professor, Biology Dr. Brian Hogan, Teaching Professor, Chemistry Dr. Kris Jordan, Teaching Associate Professor, Computer Science Dr. Daphne Klotsa, Assistant Professor, Applied Physical Sciences Dr. Xiao-Ming Liu, Associate Professor, Earth, Marine and Environmental Sciences Dr. Katie Newhall, Assistant Professor, Mathematics Dr. Rachel Penton, Teaching Associate Professor, Neuroscience 2020-2021 Dr. Duane Deardorff,Director of Undergraduate Laboratories, Physics Dr. Brian Taylor, Assistant Professor Biology Dr.ZijieYan, Assistant Professor, APS Dr.Xiaoming Liu, Assistant Professor, Geochemistry Dr. Jeff Terrell, Professor of the Practice, Computer Science Department Dr. Ehssan Nazockdast,Assistant Professor, APS 2019-2020 Dr. Jeffrey Dick, Assistant Professor, Chemistry Dr. Theo Dingemans, Professor, Applied Physical Sciences Dr. Stefan Jeglinski, Teaching Associate Professor, Physics Dr. Laura Miller, Previous Professor, Biology and Mathematics Dr. Nicolas Pgard, Assistant Professor, Applied Physical Sciences Dr. Glenn Walters, Professor of the Practice, Applied Physical Sciences Dr. Jennifer Weinberg-Wolf, Teaching Assistant Professor, Physics KEENHome EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant Student Development Grants News KEEN Contact Applied Physical Sciences lives in the collaborative space between science and engineering, combining knowledge and discovery with an engineering mindset, team-based science, and entrepreneurship to address real-world problems. The Department of Applied Physical Sciences believes that diversity, equity, and inclusion are crucial to our pursuit of excellence, and is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community. Contact Us! Department of Applied Physical Sciences University of North Carolina 1112 Murray Hall, CB#3050 Graduate Program Contacts For General Inquiries, contact appsci@unc.edu For Materials Science graduate program information, contact Le To Social Network If you want to be kept up to date about what is going on, give us a follow! 2021 Applied Physical Sciences
