Lopez, Ren | Applied Physical Sciences Skip to main content Toggle navigation Applied Physical Sciences ABOUT Home Our Department Diversity & Inclusion Events BeAM Makerspace CHANL Contact Us Find Us Intranet PEOPLE Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Meet our Recent Alumni Current Students GRADUATE Program Overview Apply to APS Ph.D. Requirements Courses New Graduate Student Information Graduate Professional Development Materials Research Society Spring 2022 Graduate Course Listing UNDERGRADUATE APSE Minor Undergraduate Courses Spring 2022 Undergraduate Course Listing ENTREPRENEURIAL MINDSET HOME EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant News KEEN Contact RESEARCH Computation Energy & Water COVID-19 Instrumentation & Light-Matter Interactions Materials Science & Engineering Soft Matter & Living Systems Translational Engineering Publications Archive GIVE APPLY NOW Home / Faculty Members / Lopez, Ren Lopez, Ren March 29, 2018 By Lars Sahl Ren Lopez Associate Professor; Director of Graduate Studies Chapman Hall 343 rln@physics.unc.edu 919-962-7216 Research Interest: Electromagnetic Radiation and Nanostructured Materials CURRICULUM VITAE GROUP PAGE GOOGLE SCHOLAR Professional Background Dr. Lopez obtained his Bachelor degree from the Monterrey Institute of Technology in Mexico, and his Master's and Doctoral degrees from Vanderbilt University in the United States. He worked at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory and Vanderbilt University before joining the Faculty of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He currently heads a group that does research in optical materials. In particular, bio-inspired photonic structures for organic photovoltaics, dye sensitized solar cells, sensors and electro-chromic materials. Research Synopsis The Lopez research group focuses on challenges at the intersection between electromagnetic radiation and nanostructured materials. Beyond its well established footprint in telecommunications, the physics of light manipulation and control with/within nanoscale materials is nowadays a rendezvous point for solar energy harvesting, chemical sensors, and photonic structures with a variety of applications. Applied Physical Sciences lives in the collaborative space between science and engineering, combining knowledge and discovery with an engineering mindset, team-based science, and entrepreneurship to address real-world problems. The Department of Applied Physical Sciences believes that diversity, equity, and inclusion are crucial to our pursuit of excellence, and is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community. Contact Us! Department of Applied Physical Sciences University of North Carolina 1112 Murray Hall, CB#3050 Graduate Program Contacts For General Inquiries, contact appsci@unc.edu For Materials Science graduate program information, contact Le To Social Network If you want to be kept up to date about what is going on, give us a follow! 2021 Applied Physical Sciences
