Forest, Greg | Applied Physical Sciences Skip to main content Toggle navigation Applied Physical Sciences ABOUT Home Our Department Diversity & Inclusion Events BeAM Makerspace CHANL Contact Us Find Us Intranet PEOPLE Faculty Graduate Students Postdocs Staff Meet our Recent Alumni Current Students GRADUATE Program Overview Apply to APS Ph.D. Requirements Courses New Graduate Student Information Graduate Professional Development Materials Research Society Spring 2022 Graduate Course Listing UNDERGRADUATE APSE Minor Undergraduate Courses Spring 2022 Undergraduate Course Listing ENTREPRENEURIAL MINDSET HOME EMERGE Faculty Learning Community KEEN COMPASS Assessment Grant News KEEN Contact RESEARCH Computation Energy & Water COVID-19 Instrumentation & Light-Matter Interactions Materials Science & Engineering Soft Matter & Living Systems Translational Engineering Publications Archive GIVE APPLY NOW Home / Faculty Members / Forest, Greg Forest, Greg March 29, 2018 By Lars Sahl Greg M. Forest Grant Dahlstrom Distinguished Professor of Mathematics Phillips Hall 316A forest@unc.edu 919-962-9606 Research Interest: Mathematics of, and Translational Applications to, Multiple Applied Science Challenges CURRICULUM VITAE GOOGLE SCHOLAR Professional Background University of New Orleans, B.S. in Mathematics, 1972 and M.S. in Mathematics, 1973; University of Arizona, Ph.D. in Mathematics, 1979; Ohio State University, Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor from 1979-1996; University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Professor of Mathematics, 1996-present; joint appointments in Biomedical Engineering and Applied Physical Sciences; Grant Dahlstrom Distinguished University Professor Research Synopsis The Forest Group focuses on the mathematics of, and translational applications to, multiple applied science challenges, such as lung biology and disease, virology and immunology, nanoparticle drug strategies for human cancer, chromosomal organization and dynamics in living cells, and mechano-chemical mechanisms of cell motility, We also delve into problems associated with the design and optimization of polymer nanocomposites with extreme properties, active soft matter, understanding the generic principles of soft matter, and encoding them into predictive modeling for feedback with experimental collaborators. Collaborators at UNC if not Otherwise Indicated Mathematics spanning all applications: David Adalsteinsson, Boyce Griffith, Sam Heroy, Caitlin Hult, Martin Lysy, Waterloo, Scott McKinley, Tulane, Peter Mucha, Jay Newby, Jeff Olander, Natesh Pillai, Harvard, Ian Seim, Bill Shi, Dane Taylor, Paula Vasquez, So. Carolina, Tim Wessler, Qi Wang, So. Carolina, Jia Zhao, Ruhai Zhou, Old Dominion. UNC Marsico Lung Institute: Ric Boucher, Scott Donaldson, Chuck Esther, Martina Gentzsch, David Hill, Marianne Muhlebach, Scott Randell, and many others, including these facultys research groups and international collaborators Chromosomal Biology: Kerry Bloom, Josh Lawrimore Virology and Immunology: Sam Lai and his research group Cell Mechano-Chemistry: Ken Jacobson, Maryna Kapustina Nanoparticle Drugs for Cancer: Leaf Huang, Lei Miao, Sam Lai, Carter Cao and their research groups Polymer Nanocomposites: Theo Dingemans, Daphne Klotsa Active Soft Matter: Qi Wang, So. Carolina, Ruhai Zhou, Old Dominion, Jia Zhao Applied Physical Sciences lives in the collaborative space between science and engineering, combining knowledge and discovery with an engineering mindset, team-based science, and entrepreneurship to address real-world problems. The Department of Applied Physical Sciences believes that diversity, equity, and inclusion are crucial to our pursuit of excellence, and is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community. Contact Us! Department of Applied Physical Sciences University of North Carolina 1112 Murray Hall, CB#3050 Graduate Program Contacts For General Inquiries, contact appsci@unc.edu For Materials Science graduate program information, contact Le To Social Network If you want to be kept up to date about what is going on, give us a follow! 2021 Applied Physical Sciences
