Carrie McCurdy | Department of Human Physiology Skip to Content University of Oregon UO Home | Dept Index CAS HPHY Department of Human Physiology Menu Home Undergraduate Graduate People Courses Labs Resources Department History Volunteer COVID-19 related updates Carrie McCurdy Affiliation: facultyTitle: Associate ProfessorE-mail: cmccurd5@uoregon.eduPhone: 541-346-5069Office: 112 Pacific HallInterests: Obesity and Insulin ResistanceWebsite: Website Statement Recent estimates find that over 30% of adults and 17% of children in the United States are obese. This is of great concern as obesity is a major risk factor for a number of chronic diseases including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and certain cancers. Additionally, obesity during pregnancy significantly increases the likelihood of early development of both obesity and metabolic disease in the child. Insulin resistance is a central and defining feature of the metabolic diseases associated with obesity. The Obesity & Metabolism (OM) research laboratory focuses on understanding the cellular signals that initiate and propagate insulin resistance in response to acute and chronic nutrient excess. The laboratory incorporates whole animal physiology with both common and cutting edge cellular and molecular techniques.Two major research areas within the laboratory are:1) To investigate points of crosstalk between insulin signaling and inflammatory pathways within adipocytes in response to a high fat/sucrose diets. (NIH DK095926)2) To examine the effect of diet and obesity during pregnancy on fetal and offspring muscle function and metabolism. (NIH DK090964)Carrie graduated with a BS in Biochemistry from the University of Notre Dame. She went on to study at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and graduated with a PhD from the Department of Nutritional Sciences in 2005. Subsequently, Carrie completed a postdoctoral fellowship in the areas of obesity and fetal programming at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus. She joined the faculty at CU as an Assistant Professor in Pediatrics with a research emphasis on the impact of diet during pregnancy on programming muscle metabolic pathways in the offspring. Carrie joined the Department of Human Physiology at the University of Oregon in the Fall of 2013. Contact Information Department of Human Physiology 181 Esslinger Hall, 1525 University St. Eugene, OR 97403 Email: hphy@uoregon.edu Phone: 541-346-4107 Fax: 541-346-2841 Search for: Give Now Twitter Instagram 2021 University of Oregon. Privacy Policy. Developed by Development Services
