Elinor Sullivan | Department of Human Physiology Skip to Content University of Oregon UO Home | Dept Index CAS HPHY Department of Human Physiology Menu Home Undergraduate Graduate People Courses Labs Resources Department History Volunteer COVID-19 related updates Elinor Sullivan Title: Research Associate ProfessorInterests: Behavioral neuroscienceWebsite: Website Statement Elinor Sullivans teaching focus is in the areas of nutrition, endocrinology, and neurobiology.Dr. Sullivans research focuses on examining the influence of maternal metabolic state and dietary environment on offspring behavioral regulation, with an emphasis on behaviors that relate to mental health and behavioral disorders including autism spectrum disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, anxiety, and depression.Her areas of expertise include behavioral neuroscience, with training and expertise in human and nonhuman primate behavior, brain development, developmental programming, maternal nutrition, and neurodevelopmental disorders.Dr. Sullivan received her Ph.D. in Physiology from Oregon Health and Science University. She received her postdoctoral training at the University of California San Francisco and Oregon Health and Science University. Prior to coming to the University of Oregon, Dr. Sullivan was an Assistant Professor in the Biology Department at the University of Portland. Dr. Sullivan is currently an Assistant Professor in the Divisions of Neuroscience and Cardiometabolic health at the Oregon National Primate Research Center. She joined the UO Department of Human Physiology in 2017.Dr. Sullivan has received research grants from the National Institute of Health, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Murdock Charitable Trust, and the Obesity Society. Contact Information Department of Human Physiology 181 Esslinger Hall, 1525 University St. Eugene, OR 97403 Email: hphy@uoregon.edu Phone: 541-346-4107 Fax: 541-346-2841 Search for: Give Now Twitter Instagram 2021 University of Oregon. Privacy Policy. Developed by Development Services
