Andrew Wetzel Associate Professor of Physics & Astronomy at the University of California, Davis Skip to content Andrew Wetzel Associate Professor of Physics & Astronomy at the University of California, Davis Menu home about me contact curriculum vitae group research projects FIRE simulation project Latte simulations MW-6D HST Survey M31-6D HST Survey presentations publications news media & press teaching courses pedagogy resources advice insightful papers effective presentation carillon Scroll down to content about I am an associate professor in the Department of Physics & Astronomy and in the Astrophysics & Cosmology Group at theUniversity of California, Davis. I am a theoretical/computational astrophysicist and cosmologist. Using some of the worlds most powerful supercomputers, I generate cosmological simulations to model the formation of cosmic structures, including galaxies and their stars. My research group uses these simulations as theoretical laboratories to develop and test models of galaxy formation, stellar dynamics, and the nature of dark matter. We are particularly interested in modeling and understanding our own Milky Way galaxy. The movie above flies through one of my Latte simulations of a galaxy like the Milky Way, showing its evolution over the last billion years. My groupat UC Davis pursuesresearch in the following areas: cosmological structure formation We model the formation of dark-matter + gaseous halos, and the galaxies that form inside of them, including the physics of dark matter, gas dynamics, star formation, stellar evolution, and stellar feedback. We seek to understand the many key components of galactic ecosystems: their dark-matter halos, stellar and gaseous disks, giant molecular clouds, star clusters, and stellar halos. galactic archeology We model the formation history of our Milky Way galaxy, the Andromeda (M31) galaxy, and more broadly the Local Group that includes a diverse population of low-mass (dwarf) galaxies. We use our simulations as theoretical laboratories for galactic archeology: to translate our observations of these galaxies today into understanding their full formation histories across cosmic time. near-field cosmology We model the dynamics of stars and gas in order to measure the spatial and velocity distribution of dark matter around the Milky Way and nearby galaxies, with the ultimate goal of testing the particle nature of dark matter. FIRE simulation project I am a member and developer of theFeedback In Realistic Environments (FIRE) simulation project. FIRE is pushing the resolution frontier in cosmological zoom-in simulations of galaxies, to pursue a bottom-up approach of resolving key aspects of the multi-phase interstellar medium (ISM) and stellar evolution within cosmological simulations. Thus, we seek to improve the predictive power of models for galaxy formation and connect them to underlying stellar populations. Latte simulations of Milky Way-like galaxies Within with FIRE collaboration, I am leading the Latte suite of simulations of Milky Way-like galaxies, in order to understand the formation history of our own Milky Way galaxy in a cosmological context. The movie above flies through a Latte simulation, showing its evolution over the last 1 billion years. connections with observations While my groups research is primarily theoretical, we also emphasizeclose connections with astronomical observations. I am co-leading theMW-6Dand M31-6D surveys, twoTreasury Programs using the Hubble Space Telescope to measure full 6-D orbital phase-space and star-formation histories for all of the dwarf galaxies around the Milky Way and Andromeda (M31). grant funding We are grateful for support from National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) National Science Foundation (NSF) Heising-Simons Foundation Hellman Fellows Program my groupand our research, news, publications,presentations,media & press My contact informationandcurriculum vitae my Teaching, Resources for students and postdocs My musical life: carillon news Dr. Jenna Samuel 2021-07-28 Isaiah Santistevan awarded NASA FINESST 2021-06-16 promotion to associate professor with tenure 2021-05-19 NSF CAREER award 2021-03-17 UC Davis article highlights our research 2021-03-10 Samantha Benincasa awarded Presidents Postdoctoral Scholarship at OSU 2021-02-17 Sky & Telescope article highlights our research 2021-02-15 Jenna Samuel awarded NSF Postdoctoral Fellowship 2021-02-01 Samantha Benincasa starts as postdoctoral fellow at OSU 2020-09-14 Sarah Loebman starts as assistant professor at UC Merced 2020-09-01 Proudly powered by WordPress
