Research group of Prof. D.L. Cox, UC Davis Physics | Site for Research Group of DL Cox Skip to primary contentSkip to secondary content Research group of Prof. D.L. Cox, UC Davis Physics Site for Research Group of DL Cox Search Main menu HomeAbout Cool Links Group Members Publications Research Welcome to the Cox Group Webpage! Featured Posted on May 19, 2020 by daniellcox1958 We carry out research on theoretical biological physics, currently focusing on Self-assembly of beta solenoid proteins for applications to detection of and protection from viral threats in collaboration with Prof. Michael Toneyand via startup company Protein Architects CorporationBiophysical models of the cell plate during plant cell formation, supported by the US NSF in collaboration with Prof. Georgia DrakakakiModeling how degradation by neurodegenerative diseases affects the neural networks involved in sensing (olfaction and auditory localization) and navigation (grid cells). News: Aug. 2021 Congratulations to Dr. Yuduo Zhi, PhD! Yuduo next begins work at Tencent Company Aug. 2021 Congratulations to Kendall Berry! Increased oscillatory power in a computational model of the olfactory bulb due to synaptic degeneration is published in Physical Review E. June 2021 Congratulations to Rustin Mahboubi-Ardakani and Joseph McTiernan for completion of Seniors Honors Theses with Highest Honors in Physics at UC Davis. Joseph begins graduate study in physics at UC Merced in August 2021, and Rustin is applying to medical school for next year. Sept. 2020 Congratulations to Dr. Rachel Baarda, PhD! Rachel is now working at IDbyDNA Aug. 2020. Neurodegenerative damage reduces firing coherence in a continuous attractor model of grid cells, by Yuduo Zhi and Daniel Cox, submitted to Physical Review E. Aug. 2020. Paper on modeling the auditory processing system necessary for localization of sounds in the vertical direction by Anandita De and Daniel Cox posted to BioRXiv. Aug. 2020. Paper on modeling the effect of neurodegenerative damage on the processing of odors in the olfactory bulb by Kendall Berry and Daniel Cox posted to BioRXiv. UPDATE: Published in Physical Review E Aug. 2021 June 2020: Collaboration with Prof. Michael Toney on designing proteins to help capture the Sars-COV-2 virus discussed here, here, and here. May 2020: Our first plant biology paper, A Biophysical Model for Plant Cell Plate Development, led by Zaki Jawaid in collaboration with Prof. Georgia Drakakaki and Rosalie Sinclair, has been submitted to Biophysical Journal and posted on biorxiv. Winter 2020; Congratulations to Jiacheng Xu for completing his general/admission to candidacy exam! January 2020: Congratulations to Jiacheng Xu for participating in the prestigious IBRO-Simons Summer School on Neuroscience Summer 2020: Congratulations to Yuduo Zhi and Muhammad Zaki Jawaid for passing their general/admission to candidacy exams! Spring 2020: Congratulations to Kendall Berry and Anandita De for passing their general/admission to candidacy exams! 9/20/18 Rachel Baarda, Tegan Mariunchuk, Michael Toney, and Daniel Cox have just gotten the paper In silico Stress-Strain Measurements on Self-assembled Protein Lattices published online in Soft Matter. Rachel Baarda prepared a figure that will be the cover art for the print edition of the journal! News: 7/1/2018 Dr. Cox is co-PI of US NSF MCB-1818219 Dissecting molecular mechanisms of plant cytokinesis and cell plate development, lead PI Prof. Georgia Drakakaki of UC Davis Plant Science. The work will focus on developing theoretical models of cell plate formation during plant cytokinesis. News: 6/15/18 Amanda Parker receives her PhD from UC Davis dissertation title is: Molecular Dynamics Studies of the Mechanical Properties and Self-Assembly of Beta-Solenoid Proteins Dr Parker is now a postdoctoral researcher at Syracuse University in the Department of Physics News: 8/10/17 Amanda Parker, Krishna Ravikumar, and Daniel L Cox have just gotten the paper Molecular Dynamics-Based Strength Estimates of Beta-Solenoid Proteins accepted in Soft Matter 8/9/17 Aaron Chan, who has volunteered in the group for 2+ years, is off to graduate study in biophysics at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign! 6/17-7/17 Rachel Baarda and Amanda Parker have participated in the Cargese Summer School on Theoretical Biophysics! Posted in Uncategorized Archives May 2020 Meta Register Log in Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy Follow Following Research group of Prof. D.L. Cox, UC Davis Physics Sign me up Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. Research group of Prof. D.L. Cox, UC Davis Physics Customize Follow Following Sign up Log in Report this content View site in Reader Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar Loading Comments... You must be logged in to post a comment.
