Taufour Lab: Creating and Tuning Materials | Experimental Condensed Matter Physics Research Group Taufour Lab: Creating and Tuning Materials Experimental Condensed Matter Physics Research Group Menu Skip to content Home Research Research Live Members Facilities Publications Teaching and Outreach We design and study new materials with novel physical properties. Our goal is to elucidate the physical interactions that are responsible for unconventionalproperties of new materials. We grow crystals of new materials, often in the form of high quality single crystals. After creating new materials, we tune them to study how to control and improve their physical properties. The tuning parameters can be chemical substitutions, high-magnetic field and/or high-pressure. Work in the laboratory is very diverse: from high temperature furnaces to millikelvin cryostats, from the big bolt cutter to the thin wire saw, from the blow torch to data analysis and machine learning We design, grow and characterize the quantum and energy materials that will enable the next generation of technologies. Check out what we are doing! Click on the pictures to learn more and follow our group on Instagram! You can also see more pictures or videos on our Research Live page. taufourlab Peter Klavins is holding on to helium! Thanks to All hands on deck for installing our new furnaces! Setting up a new glove box in our new lab! One more video from Metzli! OMG, she has a ton of A tetra-arc furnace on the cover of a book! That c Congratulations to Metzli on her award winning vid Congratulations to Yunshu Shi for passing the qual Do yourself a favor and get some magnifying safety Edwards first single crystal! There is a lot yo Congratulations to Zheng Ju and collaborators! Bi2 Another day, another furnace. We moved our 1500 d Congratulations to Tim Boyle and collaborators! In Empty lab space... The D-Day is coming! Congratulations to Hyunsoo and collaborators! MgB2 Youll never know what youll find at the bott News toys just arrived! But what are they for? Tip How do you know if a material is metallic or not? Aarons favorite crystals. They are tiny, but pr Congratulations to Khusboo and collaborators! The One of our furnace nickname is Baixue. What is Yun Fireworks for the 4th of July! Lab renovations! Step 2: bring the power... Congratulations to Tej and collaborators! A new me Yunshu just grew a crystal of the strongest ferrom Congratulations to Gil and collaborators! Ferromag Polishing crystals to get them ready for high pres Haley demonstrated superconducting levitation for Unexpected hexagonal snowflakes! Congratulations to Hanshang and Jackson who just g Air-sensitive samples need to be stored in a glove Congratulations to Jeff on earning a Physics Maste Lab renovations! Step 1: break the walls... and pu Some late Friday night science!! Load More... Follow on Instagram Proudly powered by WordPress
