Chris Fassnacht's Homepage Chris Fassnacht Professor Department of Physics, UC Davis University of California One Shields Avenue Davis, California 95616 U.S.A. Phone : +1 530-754-0831 Research Interests: The investigation of substructure associated with moderate-redshift galaxies. The latest paper can be found here. Measurement of cosmological parameters with gravitational lenses, in particular the Hubble Constant. The latest paper can be found here. Searches for strong lenses: Using ALMA follow-up of South Pole Telescope data. See the latest paper here. The HST Archive Galaxy-scale Gravitational Lens Survey ( HAGGLeS). See a related paper on the lens search in the AEGIS field here. By deep imaging of fields containing a previously-known strong lens system. The paper can be found here. The Cosmic Lens All-Sky Survey (CLASS), a search for lenses with the VLA. The latest paper can be found here. A search for strong lenses in the GOODS data. See the candidates found in the first GOODS lens search here. The related paper can be found here. Further investigations of the properties of known lens systems: I was the PI of the UC Davis node of the Astrophysics Network for Galaxy LEnsing Studies (ANGLES - Now completed.) Investigation of galaxy groups associated with gravitational lenses. The latest paper can be found here Moderate-redshift galaxy groups in general. The latest paper can be found here High-resolution radio imaging and polarimetry of active galactic nuclei, via VIPS: The VLBA Imaging and Polarimetry Survey. The latest paper can be found here. Courses: Students: Go to smartsite.ucdavis.edu if you are taking one of these classes now. Astronomy 10G - Stars, Galaxies, and the Universe (Last taught in Fall 2008) Astronomy 10S - The Solar System (Last taught in Spring 2013) Astronomy 25 - Modern Astronomy (Last taught in Fall 2012) Physics 153 - Extragalactic Astrophysics (Last taught in Winter 2010) Physics 266 - Data Analysis in Astrophysics (Last taught in Winter 2013) Some Links: CLASS Astronomy Links Bibliography Observatories UC Davis Cosmology Group page. UC Davis Physics Department page. UC Davis main home page. page by Chris Fassnacht, cdfassnacht [at] ucdavis [dot] edu.
