Search Jobs at UWMadison Jobs at UW University of WisconsinMadison Job Alerts Applicant Login Filter Send me jobs like these We will email you new jobs that match this search. Thank you for subscribing to UWMadison job alerts. Please check your inbox and confirm your subscription. The email address was invalid, please check for errors. You must agree to the privacy statement Subscribe Recaptcha Privacy agreement Search results Position Department Location Opened Closes ASSISTANT PROFESSOR ENGR/CHEM & BIOLOGICAL ENGR Madison Sep 2 2021 The Chemical and Biological Engineering Department has a long tradition of academic excellence in research and teaching at the undergraduate and graduate levels. A consistently strong emphasis on fundamentals provides our students with the skills they need to succeed in their careers. Many of our graduates are leaders in chemical engineering in both academia and industry. Graduate and undergraduate students at Wisconsin work closely with faculty on cutting-edge high-impact research. Opportunities abound for participation in service and outreach activities on campus and in the community, or in international education and research programs. UW-Madison is recognized consistently as one of the world's leading universities, and for decades our department has maintained the highest ranking in both graduate and undergraduate programs. The Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering seeks faculty candidates to enhance present departmental strengths in research and teaching. The successful candidate will be expected to develop a world-class research program, to provide undergraduate and graduate instruction in areas of technical competence, and to engage in public service as appropriate. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR ENGR/ELECTRICAL & COMPUTER ENG Madison Sep 20 2021 The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison is growing its faculty in the area of energy systems and is seeking candidates for a tenure-track position in the broad discipline of power electronics. The department is especially interested in candidates with a strong background and experimental expertise in areas such as power converter topologies, hardware integration, and controls implementation for emerging electrification applications and grid-energy systems. Candidates who transcend traditional disciplinary boundaries are especially encouraged. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR ENGR/MECHANICAL ENGR Madison Sep 7 2021 The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison seeks to fill six new faculty positions in two focus areas (1) machine learning, AI, and data-driven approaches to modeling, simulation, and design; and (2) robotics, controls, and automation. This recruitment is part of college-wide effort in the robotics and autonomous systems area. ASSISTANT, ASSOCIATE, PROFESSOR - QUANTUM SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING - CLUSTER HIRE L&S/PHYSICS/PHYSICS Madison Sep 16 2021 The Department of Physics seeks a tenure-track or tenured candidate to fill the campus-wide cluster hiring initiative to expand and broaden expertise in quantum science and engineering. This position will join two recently filled in Electrical and Computer Engineering and Materials Science & Engineering to complete this cluster hire. t is anticipated that the successful candidate in physics will develop strong collaborations with the existing quantum research at UW Madison, within the Wisconsin Quantum Institute and the HQAN and Q-Next quantum centers, as well as with other hires under this cluster program, and with external research centers. Tenure home will be determined upon hire. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR - MATERIAL SCIENCE ENGINEERING ENGR/MATERIALS SCIENCE & ENGR Madison Sep 16 2021 The Department of Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) at UW-Madison seeks candidates for a tenure-track faculty position at the Assistant Professor level in metals. UW-Madison is home to world-class, collaborative research efforts across materials, including in metals, electronic and optical materials, nanomaterials, advanced manufacturing, and polymers and biomaterials and houses cutting edge facilities for materials synthesis, characterization, and computation. Areas of interest for new faculty include alloy design, metals sustainability, synthesis and processing, and metals in extreme environments. The successful candidate will develop a world-class research program, teach undergraduate and graduate students, and to engage in professional and public service. DUNSON CHENG ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS L&S/PHYSICS/PHYSICS Madison Sep 15 2021 The Department of Physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in the areas of experimental or theoretical condensed matter physics. The successful applicant will hold the inaugural title of Dunson Cheng Assistant Professor of Physics. PROFESSOR ENGR/INDUSTRIAL & SYSTEMS ENGR Madison Sep 8 2021 Top Tier University of Wisconsin-Madison College of Engineering is looking to fill 2 faculty positions. Industrial & Systems Engineering Department has openings in Manufacturing and Production Systems and in Human Factor and Ergonomics. Expression of interest Loading... Current opportunities Position Department Location Opened Closes ASSISTANT PROFESSOR ENGR/CHEM & BIOLOGICAL ENGR Madison Sep 2 2021 The Chemical and Biological Engineering Department has a long tradition of academic excellence in research and teaching at the undergraduate and graduate levels. A consistently strong emphasis on fundamentals provides our students with the skills they need to succeed in their careers. Many of our graduates are leaders in chemical engineering in both academia and industry. Graduate and undergraduate students at Wisconsin work closely with faculty on cutting-edge high-impact research. Opportunities abound for participation in service and outreach activities on campus and in the community, or in international education and research programs. UW-Madison is recognized consistently as one of the world's leading universities, and for decades our department has maintained the highest ranking in both graduate and undergraduate programs. The Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering seeks faculty candidates to enhance present departmental strengths in research and teaching. The successful candidate will be expected to develop a world-class research program, to provide undergraduate and graduate instruction in areas of technical competence, and to engage in public service as appropriate. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR ENGR/ELECTRICAL & COMPUTER ENG Madison Sep 20 2021 The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison is growing its faculty in the area of energy systems and is seeking candidates for a tenure-track position in the broad discipline of power electronics. The department is especially interested in candidates with a strong background and experimental expertise in areas such as power converter topologies, hardware integration, and controls implementation for emerging electrification applications and grid-energy systems. Candidates who transcend traditional disciplinary boundaries are especially encouraged. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR ENGR/MECHANICAL ENGR Madison Sep 7 2021 The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison seeks to fill six new faculty positions in two focus areas (1) machine learning, AI, and data-driven approaches to modeling, simulation, and design; and (2) robotics, controls, and automation. This recruitment is part of college-wide effort in the robotics and autonomous systems area. ASSISTANT, ASSOCIATE, PROFESSOR - QUANTUM SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING - CLUSTER HIRE L&S/PHYSICS/PHYSICS Madison Sep 16 2021 The Department of Physics seeks a tenure-track or tenured candidate to fill the campus-wide cluster hiring initiative to expand and broaden expertise in quantum science and engineering. This position will join two recently filled in Electrical and Computer Engineering and Materials Science & Engineering to complete this cluster hire. t is anticipated that the successful candidate in physics will develop strong collaborations with the existing quantum research at UW Madison, within the Wisconsin Quantum Institute and the HQAN and Q-Next quantum centers, as well as with other hires under this cluster program, and with external research centers. Tenure home will be determined upon hire. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR - MATERIAL SCIENCE ENGINEERING ENGR/MATERIALS SCIENCE & ENGR Madison Sep 16 2021 The Department of Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) at UW-Madison seeks candidates for a tenure-track faculty position at the Assistant Professor level in metals. UW-Madison is home to world-class, collaborative research efforts across materials, including in metals, electronic and optical materials, nanomaterials, advanced manufacturing, and polymers and biomaterials and houses cutting edge facilities for materials synthesis, characterization, and computation. Areas of interest for new faculty include alloy design, metals sustainability, synthesis and processing, and metals in extreme environments. The successful candidate will develop a world-class research program, teach undergraduate and graduate students, and to engage in professional and public service. DUNSON CHENG ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS L&S/PHYSICS/PHYSICS Madison Sep 15 2021 The Department of Physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in the areas of experimental or theoretical condensed matter physics. The successful applicant will hold the inaugural title of Dunson Cheng Assistant Professor of Physics. PROFESSOR ENGR/INDUSTRIAL & SYSTEMS ENGR Madison Sep 8 2021 Top Tier University of Wisconsin-Madison College of Engineering is looking to fill 2 faculty positions. Industrial & Systems Engineering Department has openings in Manufacturing and Production Systems and in Human Factor and Ergonomics. Powered by PageUp Work type Faculty Full or Part Time 0 Faculty-Full Time 7 Faculty-Part Time 0 Onsite 3 Partial Remote 2 Remote 0 Staff Full or Part Time 0 Staff-Full Time 0 Staff-Part Time 0 Temporary 0 Locations Arlington 0 Barron 0 California 0 Eau Claire County 0 Lincoln County 0 Madison 7 Marathon County 0 Marinette County 0 Milwaukee 0 Northern Wisconsin 0 Pierce County 0 Prairie du Sac 0 Rockford, IL 0 Sawyer County 0 South Central Wisconsin 0 Washington County 0 Wisconsin 0 Wood County 0 Categories Academic Services and Student Experience Academic Advising 0 Academic and Student Experience Services 0 Admissions and Recruitment 0 Career Services and Student Professional Development 0 Recreation and Wellness 0 Student Life and Student Program Management 0Administration Administrative Services 0 Project Management and Quality Improvement 0Advancement Corporate and Foundation Relations 0 Development 0Animal Care Services Clinical Animal Care 0 Teaching and Research Animal Care 0Communications and Marketing Communications 0 Marketing 0 Multimedia and Design 0 Writing and Editing 0Compliance, Legal, and Protection Health and Safety 0 Institutional Audit and Compliance 0 Protective Services 0Dining, Events, Hospitality Services, and Sales Dining and Catering Services 0 Guest Services and Sales 0 Operational Management Services 0 Planning and Conference/Event Management 0Executive Executive 0Facilities and Capital Planning Agricultural Operations 0 Architecture and Engineering Services 0 Custodial Services 0 Distribution and Inventory Management 0 Facilities Project Management 0 Operations and General Maintenance 0 Specialized Crafts 0 Transportation 0Faculty Faculty 0Finance Accounting, Financial Operations, and Reporting 0 Financial Planning and Budgeting 0Health and Wellness Services Health Professional Education Programs 0 Health Services Administration 0 Health Services Professional 0 Public Health Laboratory Sciences 0Human Resources HR Generalist 0 Organizational Development 0 Payroll and Benefits 0Information Technology Application and Web Development 0 Business and Systems Analysis 0 IT Data Administration 0 IT Multifunctional Services 0 IT Project Management 0 IT System and Application Administration 0 IT User Support 0Instructional Category Instructional Category 0Libraries, Archives, and Museums Libraries, Archives, and Museums: Multi-Functional Support 0Outreach and Community Engagement Engagement and Outreach 0 Youth Programming 0Public Broadcasting Production 0 Programming 0Research Client-Based Research Services 0 Clinical Trials 0 Data Analysis Services 0 Research 0Sponsored Programs, Grants, and Contracts Sponsored Programs, Grants, and Contract Administration (Multi-functional) 0 Sponsored Programs, Grants, and Contract Administration (Post-Award) 0 Sponsored Programs, Grants, and Contract Administration (Pre-Award) 0Teaching and Learning Academic or Instructional Technology and Instructional Design 0 Early Childhood Education 0 Instructional Facilitation and Management of For-credit Courses 0 Teaching and Instruction of For-credit Courses 0Transition/Expired Categories Academic Advising, Student Services/Support 0 Accounting, Finance, Purchasing 0 Agricultural, Animal, Biological and Life Sciences 0 Animal Care, Veterinary Medicine 0 Custodial 0 Dean, Director, Executive 0 Engineering 7 Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety 0 Equity, Diversity, Inclusion 0 Extension, Outreach, Public Engagement 0 Food Science, Nutritional Science 0 Geology/Cartography 0 Grant, Research, Contract Management 0 Health Care, Medical, Social Services 0 Information Systems/Technology 0 Instructional 5 Instructional Design 0 Laboratory Technician, Research Specialists 0 Legal Affairs 0 Library, Museum, Arts 0 Management/Supervisory 0 Marketing, Public Relations 0 Natural Resources, Environmental Sciences 0 Other 0 Research, Scientific 6 Training, Employee Development 0 More Jobs at UW Custodial Positions Postdoc Training Student Job Center Internal Vacancies Referral Priority Candidates Blue Collar Multi-Shift Vacancies Help Frequently Asked Questions Applicant Tutorial Disability Accommodations The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer. Quick Links Madison, WI About UW Visit Campus Employee Benefits Working at UW Contact Espaol Hmoob Talent Recruitment and Engagement Office of Human Resources University of WisconsinMadison 21 N. Park Street, Suite 5101 Madison, WI 53715-1218 20162021 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Privacy Statement UW Logo UW Crest Logo <
