Powers, Dana - UW-Engineering Directory | College of Engineering @ The University of Wisconsin-Madison Toggle navigation MENU Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical & Biological Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Engineering Physics Interdisciplinary Professional Programs Industrial & Systems Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering BACKAwards & Rankings Employment Opportunities Faculty & Staff Directory History Leadership Advisory Board Mission & Initiatives Strategic Plan About BACKAwards & Rankings Employment Opportunities Faculty & Staff Directory History Leadership Advisory Board Mission & Initiatives Strategic Plan BACKUndergraduate Academics Choosing a Major Undergraduate Majors & Certificates Honors Graduate Academics Graduate Engineering Research Scholars Online Professional Degrees and Certificates Academic Advising Undergraduate Engineering Students Engineering Policies and Procedures Frequently Asked Questions and Forms Progression Requirements Rules and Regulations First Year Undergraduate Students Graduate Engineering Students Engineering Policies and Procedures Graduate School Policies Incoming Undergraduates Cross-Campus Students Off-Campus Transfer Students Engineering Career Services Internship Cooperative Education Entry Professional Experienced Professionals (Alumni) Diversity Affairs Office LEED Scholars Program Engineering Summer Program Student Connections Partners & Giving Undergraduate Learning Center InterEGR150 STEPS Problem Solving Workshop/Supplemental Instruction Drop-in Tutoring Tutoring-by-Request Study Tables Additional Support Working for the ULC Beyond the Classroom Competitions International Engineering Studies and Programs Leadership Certificate Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Interdisciplinary Professional Programs Academics BACKUndergraduate Academics Choosing a Major Undergraduate Majors & Certificates Honors Graduate Academics Graduate Engineering Research Scholars Online Professional Degrees and Certificates Academic Advising Undergraduate Engineering Students Engineering Policies and Procedures Frequently Asked Questions and Forms Progression Requirements Rules and Regulations First Year Undergraduate Students Graduate Engineering Students Engineering Policies and Procedures Graduate School Policies Incoming Undergraduates Cross-Campus Students Off-Campus Transfer Students Engineering Career Services Internship Cooperative Education Entry Professional Experienced Professionals (Alumni) Diversity Affairs Office LEED Scholars Program Engineering Summer Program Student Connections Partners & Giving Undergraduate Learning Center InterEGR150 STEPS Problem Solving Workshop/Supplemental Instruction Drop-in Tutoring Tutoring-by-Request Study Tables Additional Support Working for the ULC Beyond the Classroom Competitions International Engineering Studies and Programs Leadership Certificate Student Organizations Undergraduate Research Interdisciplinary Professional Programs BACKUndergraduate Admissions Incoming Undergraduates Differential Tuition Progression Requirements Cross-Campus Students Returning Adults and Second Degree Students Apply for Re-entry Graduate Admissions Graduate Academics Professional Online Masters Degrees and Certificates Scholarships & Aid Visit Campus Maps, Directions & Parking Admissions BACKUndergraduate Admissions Incoming Undergraduates Differential Tuition Progression Requirements Cross-Campus Students Returning Adults and Second Degree Students Apply for Re-entry Graduate Admissions Graduate Academics Professional Online Masters Degrees and Certificates Scholarships & Aid Visit Campus Maps, Directions & Parking BACKResearch Focus Areas Grainger Institute for Engineering Centers, Consortia & Institutes Facilities & Resources Research News Faculty & Staff Directory Research BACKResearch Focus Areas Grainger Institute for Engineering Centers, Consortia & Institutes Facilities & Resources Research News Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events BACKAlumni Relations Corporate Engagement Contact Engage with Student Organizations Sponsor Research Recruit Students & Alumni Post a job On-Campus Interviews Career Fairs Giving Outreach Programs Engage BACKAlumni Relations Corporate Engagement Contact Engage with Student Organizations Sponsor Research Recruit Students & Alumni Post a job On-Campus Interviews Career Fairs Giving Outreach Programs UW Home UW Search UW Directory My UW Give UW Home UW Search UW Directory My UW Give Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical & Biological Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Engineering Physics Interdisciplinary Professional Programs Industrial & Systems Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering AboutLooking beyond tomorrowWe seek to provide a transformational educational experience that inspires our engineers in their relentless pursuit of innovations that create a better future for our world. Awards & Rankings Employment Opportunities Faculty & Staff Directory History Leadership Mission & Initiatives Strategic Plan AcademicsYour educationIn the College of Engineering, we aim to give you a transformational educational experience that inspires you in your relentless pursuit of innovations that create a better future for our world. Undergraduate Academics Graduate Academics Academic Advising Engineering Career Services Diversity Affairs Office Undergraduate Learning Center Beyond the Classroom Interdisciplinary Professional Programs AdmissionsApply today!Whether you are considering undergraduate or graduate-level education, the College of Engineering is the right place for you. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships & Aid Visit Campus Maps, Directions & Parking ResearchDevising creative solutions for a healthier, safer and more sustainable future for our societyChallenges intrigue us and fuel what we do. The more difficult and perplexing the problem, the harder we work to unravel itand we find great meaning and satisfaction in finding solutions, developing technologies, building devices, advancing knowledge, and improving systems that enhance the lives of people everywhere. Research Focus Areas Grainger Institute for Engineering Centers, Consortia & Institutes Facilities & Resources Research News Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events EngageGet involved!Learn about the many ways you can stay connected with us and support our mission. Alumni Relations Corporate Engagement Recruit Students & Alumni Giving Outreach Programs Search Home Engineering Physics People Dana Powers Dana PowersHonorary Senior Scientist PROFILE LINKS EducationAwards, Honors and SocietiesPublicationsProfile Summary dapowers@msn.comPrimary Affiliation: Engineering Physics Profile Summary Dana A. Powers received his Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1970. He received a Ph.D. degree in Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Economics in 1975 from the California Institute of Technology. His research for this degree program included magnetic properties of basic iron compounds, catalyst characterization and the rational pricing of innovative products. In 1974, Powers joined Sandia National Laboratories where he worked in the Chemical Metallurgy Division. His principal research interests were in high temperature and aggressive chemical processes. In 1981, he became the supervisor of the Reactor Safety Research Division and conducted analytic and experimental studies of severe reactor accident phenomena in fast reactors and light water reactors. These studies included examinations of core debris interactions with concrete, sodium interactions with structural materials, fission product chemistry under reactor accident conditions, aerosol physics, and high temperature melt interactions with coolants. In 1991, Powers became the acting Manager of the Nuclear Safety Department at Sandia that was involved in the study of fission reactor accident risks and the development of plasma-facing components for fusion reactors. Powers has also worked on the Systems Engineering for recovery and processing of defense nuclear wastes and has developed computer models for predicting worker risks in Department of Energy nuclear facilities. Powers conducted analyses of accident phenomena for safety analyses of the Cassini and New Horizons deep space probes. Dr. Powers was promoted to Senior Scientist at Sandia in 1997. Dr. Powers is the author of 126 technical publications. He is a Fellow of the American Nuclear Society. Dr. Powers retired from Sandia National Laboratories in 2015. From 1988 to 1991, Dr. Powers served as a member of the Department of Energy Advisory Committee on Nuclear Facility Safety (ACNFS). In 1994, he was appointed to the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards (ACRS) for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. He was Vice Chairman of the ACRS in 1997 and 1998. He was elected Chairman in 1999 and 2000. In 2001, Dr. Powers received the Distinguished Service Award from the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Dr. Powers served on committees for the National Research Council involved with the safety of Department of Energy facilities and the nuclear safety of reactors in the former Soviet Union. He has been an instructor for courses on reactor safety and accident management held by the International Atomic Energy Agency in several countries. Dr. Powers received the Theos J. (Tommy) Thompson Award for Nuclear Safety in 2007 from the American Nuclear Society in recognition of outstanding contributions to the field of nuclear reactor safety. In 2015, Dr. Powers was elected to the National Academy of Engineering. Update Profile Learning TechnologiesLearn @ UW CEETE ResourcesBuilding hours Events calendar Space use policy Space reservation procedures Reserve space Privacy statement Grad StudentsGraduate Admissions Graduate Academics UndergraduatesScholarships & Aid Student Services Undergraduate Research Faculty and StaffFaculty & staff directory Search for all faculty vacancies Employment opportunities College services and resources Support You can support The College of Engineering by making a gift to the University of Wisconsin Foundation. Give Today New Engineering Building Learn More 1415 Engineering DriveMadison, WI 53706 Contact 2021 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System
