Rafael E Landaeta - Old Dominion University [ skip to content ] Phone menu jump toggle Old Dominion University Idea Fusion Search ODU Search ODU myODU A to Z Directories Employment Libraries Information for INFO FOR Future Students Current Students International Military Parents & Family Community Business & Partners Alumni Media Faculty & Staff About ODU Office of the President Administration & Organization Board of Visitors Accreditation Facts & Figures Coastal Virginia History & Archives Nationally Recognized Faculty ODU Publications Strategic Planning & Initiatives Contact the University Connect with ODU Academics Programs Colleges Academic Calendar University Catalogs Continued Learning Distance Learning Graduate School Honors College Regional Centers Study Abroad Summer Studies Admission Apply for Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission International Admission Non-Degree Admission Reactivation English Proficiency Admitted Student Information Tuition & Financial Aid Costs & Tuition Financial Aid ODU Cost Estimator University Life Getting Involved Culture & Entertainment Diversity at ODU Dining Housing Transportation & Parking Sports & Fitness Accessibility Health & Safety Student Outreach Off-Campus University Life University Calendars & Events University Village Bookstore Research & Entrepreneurship Faculty Expertise Research Centers Research Initiatives Institute for Innovation & Entrepreneurship Office of Research ODU Research Foundation Arts Gordon Art Galleries Diehn Concert Series Literary Festival Barry Art Museum Diehn School of Music Theatre Dance Cinema Athletics Toggle Mobile Menu Rafael E Landaeta Directories Rafael E Landaeta ASSOC PROF & ASSOC DEAN Batten College of Engineering & Technology Contact Information 1105 ENGINEERING SYSTEM BLDG NORFOLK, VA 23529 Email: rlandaet@odu.edu Phone: 757-683-4478 Organizational Chart Office of the PresidentAcademic Affairs Batten College of Engineering & Technology Rafael E Landaeta Biography Dr. Landaeta is an Associate Professor with tenure in the Department of Engineering Management and Systems Engineering at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Virginia. He holds a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering and an M.S. in Engineering Management from the University of Central Florida, as well as, a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from UNITEC Venezuela.He serves as an Associate Editor for the Engineering Management Journal and is the Old Dominion University Faculty Advisor of the Student Chapter of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the Engineering Ambassadors.His scholarship focuses on the continuous improvement of knowledge-intensive project-based organizations, including agility, innovation, and entrepreneurship. He has provided management coaching, training, and consulting to Fortune 100 companies and large government organizations.The American Society for Engineering Management recognized him with two Meritorious Service Awards in 2006 and 2012 and was elected Fellow of the society in 2014. Old Dominion University recognized him with the Shining Star Award in 2010 and 2016, the Batten College of Engineering and Technology Excellence in Teaching Award in 2008, and the Industry Engagement Award in 2014. He was selected as an entrepreneurship "Entsminger fellow" by Old Dominion University in 2015. View More Education/Credentials Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering, University of Central Florida, (2003) M.S. in Engineering Management, University of Central Florida, (2000) B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, Universidad Tecnologica del Centro, (1995) Project Management Professional Certification (PMP) Sponsoring Organization: Project Management Institute Date Obtained: 2015-01-01 Certified Scrum Master Sponsoring Organization: Scrum Alliance Date Obtained: 2009-01-01 View More Expertise Select Publications Honors Research Expertise Engineering Engineering Management, Project Management, Knowledge Management, Innovation & Entrepreneurship. Research Interests Knowledge Transfer, Agile Project Management, Knowledge Creation and Innovation. Articles Landaeta, R., Pinto, C. A., and Kotnour, T. Assessing faulty knowledge management systems in project-based organizations. The International Journal of Knowledge and Learning Landaeta, R., Kotnour, T., Vergopia, C., Diaz, R., and Camci, A. Assessing the Effects of Methods to Push Knowledge across Projects upon the Project Source of Knowledge. International Journal of Project Management Landaeta, R. Deployment of the USACE-NAOs Project Management Development Program. Army Corps of EngineersNorfolk District Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. Investigating teaching outcomes of the implementation of an extended cooperative learning framework. Engineering Science and Education Journal Landaeta, R. Organizational Learning and Transformation in Healthcare. Sentara Hospitals Landaeta, R., Kotnour, T., Malone, L., and Gowan, M. Taxonomies of methods and tools to transfer knowledge across projects. The International Journal of Knowledge Management Studies Landaeta, R., Kotnour, T., Vergopia, C., Diaz, R., and Camci, A. Using knowledge obtained from other projects to solve problems in critical projects: An exploratory study of the role and gender of key stakeholders in projects. American Society for Engineering Management 2008 Annual Conference Haltiwanger, G., Landaeta, R., Pinto, C. A., and Tolk, A. (2010). Understanding the Relationship between Risk Management and Knowledge Management: A Literature Review. Int. J. of Knowledge Management Studies (IJKMS), 4 (3), pp. 281-300. Keating, C. B., Rabadi, G., Landaeta, R., and Bowling, S. R. (2009). Systems of systems engineering for border security and inmigration: methodologies, processes, and tools. The International Journal of Systems of Systems, 1 (4), pp. 414 444. Landaeta, R., Decker, B., and Kotnour, T. (2009). Exploring the relationships between emotional intelligence and the use of knowledge transfer methods in the project environment. Knowledge Management Research and Practice, 7 (1), pp. 15-36. Landaeta, R. (2008). Evaluating Benefits and Challenges of Knowledge Transfer across Projects. Engineering Management Journal, 20 (1), pp. 29-38. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2008). Formal Mentoring: A Human Resource Management Practice that Supports Knowledge Transfer across Projects. The International Journal of Learning and Intellectual Capital., 5 (3/4), pp. 455-475. Landaeta, R., Mun, J., Rabadi, G., and Levin, D. (2008). Identifying Sources of Resistance to Change in Healthcare. International Journal of Healthcare Technology and Management, 9 (1), pp. 74-96. Landaeta, R., Searcy, C., Adcock, A. B., Marken, J. A., Dickerson, D. L., and Kotnour, T. (2008). Student perception of cooperative learning in a blended engineering course. The World Review of Science, Technology and Sustainable Development Searcy, C., Landaeta, R., Adcock, A. B., Marken, J. A., Dickerson, D. L., and Kotnour, T. (2008). Student perceptions of cooperative learning in a blended engineering course. World Review of Science, Technology and Sustainable Development, 5 (3/4), pp. 373-388. Landaeta, R., Tolk, A., Kewley, R., and Litwin, T. (2008). A Systems Engineering Process for driving System of Systems Development with Operational Requirements. American Society for Engineering Management 2008 Annual Conference Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2007). Extending the Cooperative Learning Principles to Multiple Learning Groups & Timeframes: A Case Example. Journal of Faculty Development, 21 (3), pp. 201-216. Conference Proceeding Dario, E. (2017). Creative confidence in organizational knowledge creation: A synthesis of the literature. ,Proceedings of the International Annual Conference of the American Society for Engineering Management. (pp. 1--9) Landaeta, R., Viscardi, S., and Tolk, A. (2011). Strategic Management of Scrum Projects: An Organizational Learning Perspective. ,IEEE International Technology Management Conference (pp. 651-656). San Jose, CA: IEEE Press. Pinto, C. A., Tolk, A., and Landaeta, R. (2010). Goal Approach to Risk Scenario Identification in Systems Development.. American Society for Engineering Management Symposium. Tolk, A., Turnitsa, C. D., Diallo, S. Y., King, R. D., and Landaeta, R. (2009). Engineering Management for Complex Systems.. Miami, FL: Proc. of the IERC. Tolk, A., Landaeta, R., Kewley, R. H., and Litwin, T. G. (2009). Utilizing Strategic Project Management Processes and the NATO Code of Best Practice to Improve Management of Experimentation Events.. Washington, DC: Proc. of the ICCRTS 2009. Landaeta, R., Vergopia, C., and Diaz, R. (2008). Differences in the performance of knowledge transfer across projects: a study of gender and role of key project stakeholders.. West Point, NY: Proceedings of the 29th American Society for Engineering Management Annual Conference. Landaeta, R., and Decker, B. (2007). Emotional Intelligence: A Review and Discussion of its Implications for Project Management.. American Society for Engineering Management National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Searcy, C. (2007). Technology-Enhanced Distance Education in Engineering: A Research Proposal.. American Society for Engineering Management National Conference. Landaeta, R., and West, C. (2007). The Challenge of Studying Team Cognition in Control Center Contexts.. American Society for Engineering Management National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Decker, B. (2007). The Role of Emotional Intelligence in Promoting the Use of Knowledge Transfer Methods among Project Team Members.. American Society for Engineering Management National Conference. Landaeta, R., and West, C. (2007). Understanding the Impact of Crisis Environments on the Distributed Cognition of Multidisciplinary Crisis Control Center Teams.. IEEE International Engineering Management Conference. Landaeta, R., and Lamarsh, W. (2006). A literature review of social capital.. Huntsville, Alabama: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., Unal, R., Nazikkol, S., and Rabadi, G. (2006). An Empirical Investigation of the Effectiveness of Crisis Management Strategies.. Huntsville, Alabama: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., Pinto, C. A., and Kotnour, T. (2006). Analyzing Faulty Project Knowledge Systems: An Empirical Investigation of a R&D organization.. Huntsville, Alabama: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., Taslicali, A., Unal, R., and Rabadi, G. (2006). Understanding Managerial Differences and Similarities between AHP and ANP: An Empirical Study.. Huntsville, Alabama: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., Henrie, M., and Safford, R. (2005). Building crisis management capabilities in projects. (pp. 330-336). Virginia Beach, Virginia: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Lamarsh, W. (2005). Is crisis management a new knowledge area needed for the PMI?. (pp. 325-329). Virginia Beach, Virginia: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2005). Knowledge management systems. (pp. 194-199). Virginia Beach, Virginia: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Peterson, W. R. (2005). Certification For Engineering Managers?. (pp. 211-214). St Johns: Proceedings of 2005 IEEE International Engineering Management Conference. Landaeta, R., and Peterson, W. R. (2005). Engineering Management Certification. (pp. 53-58). Norfolk, Virginia: Proceedings of the Association of Management/ International Association of Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., Sousa-Poza, A., Bedoya, L., Bozkurt, I., and Correa, Y. (2004). An understanding of the application of research methods in engineering management.. Washington, DC: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2004). Writing Reflective Case Studies for the Engineering Management Journal.. Washington, DC: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2003). Identifying critical knowledge for projects.. Tampa, Florida: Proceedings of the American Society for Engineering Management, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2003). Identifying push-pull approaches for managing knowledge across projects.. Proceedings of the Portland International Conference on Management of Engineering and Technology. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2003). Identifying steps and approaches for managing knowledge across projects.. Cocoa Beach, Florida: Proceeding of the Industrial Engineering and Management Systems Conference, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2002). Developing a theory of knowledge management across projects.. Orlando, Florida: Proceeding of the 2002 Industrial Engineering Research Conference, National Conference. Landaeta, R., and Kotnour, T. (2001). Identifying critical success factors for managing knowledge across projects.. Cocoa Beach, Florida: Proceeding of the Industrial Engineering and Management Systems Conference, National Conference. Presentations Landaeta, R. (May, 2008). Lessons Learned from the Use of Surveys in Engineering and Technology Management Research presented at Fireside Chat at the Park Old Dominion University. Landaeta, R., and Palacio, K. (January, 2008). Knowledge Management Systems in Health Care Organizations presented at Research Day. Searcy, C., Landaeta, R., Adcock, A. B., Marken, J. A., and Dickerson, D. L. (November, 2007). Technology-enhanced distance education in engineering: A research proposal presented at 28th Annual American Society for Engineering Management National Conference Chattanooga, TN. Landaeta, R., Rabadi, G., and Pinto, C. A. (November, 2006). Project's Knowledge Management presented at NSWCCD Norfolk, Virginia. Landaeta, R. (July, 2005). Knowledge Management in Technology-based Organizations presented at Allied Aerospace Newport News, Virginia. Landaeta, R. (January, 2005). Managing your dissertation presented at ENMA Ph.D. Seminar Old Dominion University. Landaeta, R., Keating, C. B., Sousa-Poza, A., Rabadi, G., Mun, J., and Karayaz, G. (January, 2005). Development of a Complex Systems Engineering Environment to Facilitate Systems of Systems Engineering (SoSE) for Border Security presented at Research Day Old Dominion University Research Foundation. Landaeta, R., Kotnour, T., and Sousa-Poza, A. (April, 2004). Evaluating the impact of technology upon knowledge management across projects presented at Association of Management/ International Association of Management 2004 Annual Conference Norfolk, Virginia. Landaeta, R., Keating, C. B., Sousa-Poza, A., and Bozkurt, I. (January, 2004). Knowledge Management Across Projects presented at Research Day Old Dominion University Research Foundation. Landaeta, R. (August, 2003). Knowledge management in projects presented at SIEMENS-WESTINGHOUSE Power Corporation PG-226 Orlando, Florida. Landaeta, R. (June, 2003). Knowledge management across projects presented at Raytheon Systems Company Orlando, Florida. 2015: Entrepreneurship Entsminger Fellow, Old Dominion University 2014: Fellow, American Society for Engineering Management 2013: Excellence in Industry Engagement Award, Batten College of Engineering and Technology 2013: Certificate of Appreciation, US Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) 2012: ASEM Meritorious Service Award, American Society for Engineering Management 2010: Shinning Star Award, Division of Student Affairs at Old Dominion University 2008: Excellence in Teaching Award, Batten College of Engineering and Technology 2006: Meritorious Service Award, American Society for Engineering Management 2004: Engineering Management Honor Society, Phi-Tau Contracts, Grants and Sponsored Research Bowling, S. R.; Pazos-Lago, M.; Landaeta, R. "The Usefulness of Mini Lectures Supplements in an Online Teaching Environment" $3,000. Old Dominion University. May, 2010 - August, 2010 Landaeta, R.; Rabadi, G.; Bowling, S. R.; Daniels, C.; Pazos-Lago, M.; Watson, G. S. "Deployment and Evaluation of a Customized Project Management Development Program for the US Army Core of Engineers-Norfolk District " $60,330. Federal. January, 2010 - June, 2010 Landaeta, R.; Watson, G. S.; Daniels, C.; Parsons, V.; Bowling, S. R.; Pazos-Lago, M.; Rabadi, G. "Design of a Customized Project Management Development Program for the US Army Core of Engineers-Norfolk District (USACE-NAO) (Phase II). " $77,282. Federal. April 1, 2009 - May 1, 2010 Pazos-Lago, M.; Landaeta, R. "Evaluation of Virginia Natural Gas Energy Conservation Programs: An efficiency analysis for 2009" $15,000. State. February 1, 2010 - March 30, 2010 Landaeta, R. "Identifying Measures of Trainees Knowledge Change for Modeling and Simulation Training Projects (Phase II). " $50,000. State. March 1, 2009 - March 1, 2010 Tolk, A.; Landaeta, R. "Simulation Roadmap for Program Executive Office (PEO) Soldier and Marine Corps System Command-Phase II" $80,000. Federal. February 1, 2009 - October 1, 2009 Landaeta, R. "Identifying Measures of Trainees Knowledge Change for Modeling and Simulation Training Projects" $50,000. July, 2008 - December, 2008 Landaeta, R. "Simulation Roadmap for Program Executive Office (PEO) Soldier and Marine Corps System Command" $20,000. August, 2008 - September, 2008 Landaeta, R. "Design of a Customized Project Management Development Program for the US Army Core of Engineers-Norfolk District (USACE-NAO)" $2,400. December, 2007 - March, 2008 Bowling, S. R.; Rabadi, G.; Keating, C. B.; Landaeta, R.; Earnest, D. C.; Unal, R. "System-of-Systems Engineering Modeling and Analysis for the Secure Border Initiative (SBI) Phase II" $129,998. Federal. September 1, 2007 - March 1, 2008 Unal, R.; Rabadi, G.; Keating, C. B.; Bowling, S. R.; Landaeta, R.; Earnest, D. C. "System-of-Systems Engineering Modeling & Analysis for SB Initiative" $145,000. June 1, 2007 - October 1, 2007 Landaeta, R. "Exploration of the Operational and Business Value of Different Sources of Projects Resources and Labor in the US Army Corp of EngineersNorfolk District, Army Corps of Engineers Norfolk District" $10,000. March, 2006 - May, 2006 Rabadi, G.; Keating, C. B.; Loftin, B.; Sousa-Poza, A.; Mun, J.; Landaeta, R. "The Department of Homeland Security Border System-of-Systems Engineering Analysis" $819,212. October, 2005 - March, 2006 Update your directory information Old Dominion University Norfolk, VA 23529 Contact & Mailing Info Directions to Campus Old Dominion University, located in Norfolk, is Virginia's forward-focused public doctoral research university with more than 24,000 students, rigorous academics, an energetic residential community and initiatives that contribute $2.6 billion annually to Virginia's economy. Connect with #ODU Copyright Old Dominion University Updated 9/26/2021 Privacy Accessibility Consumer Information About ODU Academics University Life Admission & Aid Research & Impact Athletics A to Z Directories Libraries Calendars Search ODU Search
