Administration and Staff | College of Business Skip Navigation Search Text Select Search Scope Search This Site Just This Site Search SBU Website SBU Website Search Request More Info/Register for an Event Search Search Text Search Site Site College of Business Home About Dean's Message Contact Us Mission Statement Strategic Plan Governance COB Fast Facts Faculty Directory Administration & Staff Dean's Advisory Board Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Student Advisory Board Alumni Assurance of Learning Scholarships Undergraduates Academic Advising Undergraduate Programs Accounting Programs MBA Fast Track Admissions Business Honors Program Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Resources Graduates Graduate Admissions COB Graduate Program Inquiry Form Graduate Programs Combined Masters Accounting Programs MS in Finance MS in Technology Management AGC in Finance Current Students Faculty/Research FacultyDirectory Research Research Seminar Series Centers & Labs Faculty Resources Business COVID19 Resources for Industry FAQ of Social Media Workshop: A Concrete Toolkit to Help Small Business Owners Associations & Clubs Innovation Center iCreate Entrepreneurs Edge: Annual Interview Series Real Estate Institute Sustainable Entrepreneurship COVID-19 For Business Career Resources Internship Resources Career Center Grad Connection: Overseas Job Portal Home About Us Administration and Staff Administration & StaffDean's Office - 306 Harriman Hall The College of Business Dean's Office supports the faculty, staff, and strategic initiatives of the College of Business. Manuel London, Ph.D. Dean, College of BusinessSUNY Distinguished ProfessorHarriman 306 Manuel.London@stonybrook.edu631-632-7159 Dr. London is a Distinguished Professor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He received his A.B. from Case Western Reserve University and his MA and Ph.D. from the Ohio State University in industrial and organizational psychology. He taught at the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana before joining AT&T. There he conducted research and designed programs for management assessment, performance evaluation, and leadership development. London has been on the Stony Brook faculty since 1989 where he has served as Deputy to the President, Associate Provost for Enrollment & Retention Management, Director of the Undergraduate College of Leadership & Service, Associate Dean of the College of Business, and, since 2010, Dean of the College of Business. He is the author of 18 books, the editor of 10, and the author of more than 130 articles in the areas of performance evaluation, job feedback, career motivation, leadership development, and group learning. His books and articles have won awards from the Association for Human Resource Development and the Society for Human Resource Management. Dmytro Holod, Ph.D. Associate Dean for Academic Programs & MS Finance Program DirectorHarriman 321 Dmytro.Holod@stonybrook.edu631-632-7183 Dr. Holod received his Ph.D. from the University of Kentucky in 2005. His research interests include financial intermediation and corporate finance. Dr. Holod presented his research at numerous academic and practitioner conferences, and his work was published in finance and economics journals, including the Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, the Journal of Banking and Finance, and Financial Management. Danling Jiang Associate Dean of Research and Faculty DevelopmentHarriman 345 Danling.Jiang@stonybrook.edu Dr. Jiang is a Professor of Finance and serves as the Associate Dean of Research and Faculty Development. Her research involves studying investments, corporate finance, and financial decision making by integrating psychology, political science, sociology, and other disciplines into finance. She oversees faculty mentor program, faculty annual evaluation and review process, monitors promotion and tenure committee progress, advises faculty about journal submission process and funded research opportunities, and reviews faculty qualification and faculty sufficiency in line with AACSB standards. Dr. Jiang received a Ph.D. in finance from the Ohio State University. Amy Milligan Assistant Dean for Curriculum, Accreditation& Student ServicesHarriman 306 Amy.Milligan@stonybrook.edu Amy began her career in higher education in 2003 working for Dowling College. She worked with the Dowling Institute to offer MBA programs at various companies to facilitate employees earning their degrees at their job location. During that time, Amy earned her MBA in General Management from Dowling College. Amy went on to become the Assistant Dean for Admissions at the Stony Brook Southampton campus in 2007. In November of 2010, Amy began working in the College of Business at Stony Brook University as the Assistant Dean for Administration with primary responsibilities in human resources, budget, enrollment management and accreditation. Amys current position is Assistant Dean for Curriculum, Accreditation and Student Services. In addition, Amy is an active member of the faculty teaching undergraduate and graduate courses in leadership and organizational behavior. Joshua Weil Development OfficerComputer Science Room 203F joshua.weil@stonybrook.edu631-632-2039 Josh Weil is the Assistant Director of Development for the College of Business and also serves as the Assistant Director of Development in the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences focusing specifically on the Department of Computer Science. Josh has extensive experience in fundraising both inside and outside of the Higher Education setting. He joined Stony Brook University in March 2019 and since then has raised nearly $2.5 million to support scholarships, fellowships and other areas involved in student growth. Prior to joining Stony Brook, he was a political operative working for candidates seeking public office at all levels. Josh has consulted numerous candidates and organizations on best fundraising practices at the local, state and federal levels. To date, he has operated on and led teams that raised upwards of $8 million for candidates throughout the United States. In addition to his work at Stony Brook, Josh is a volunteer Firefighter and Emergency Medical Technician at Roslyn Rescue Hook and Ladder Company #2 and is an alumnus of Guildford College in Greensboro, North Carolina. Joyce Wellinger Assistant Dean for Finance & AdministrationHarriman 306 joyce.wellinger@stonybrook.edu 631-632-7111 Reporting to the Dean, Joyce Wellinger is the Assistant Dean for Finance and Administration and serves as the chief financial and administrative officer for the College of Business. She is responsible for the effective and efficient function of the College to advance both current and long-term goals that include directing, overseeing and coordinating designated aspects of the operations of the College. Joyce works in consultation with the Dean, the Associate Dean, Area Heads and Assistant Dean for Curriculum, Accreditation and Student Services to develop and coordinate the implementation of strategic plans, and oversees the daily operational, budgetary and financial management, human resources, facilities, information technology support services, international program administration, and overall College compliance with University, State and Federal contracts, grants, policies and regulation. Peter Caprariello Co-Director, Undergraduate Business ProgramHarriman 312A peter.caprariello@stonybrook.edu Peter Caprariello received a B.A. (2003) from Carnegie Mellon University. He held research internship appointments at Yale University (2002) and Princeton University (2003-2004). Attended the University of Rochester from 2004-2012, obtaining Ph.D. Held adjunct teaching appointments at the University of Rochester (2007), Nazareth College (2008, 2010), and SUNY Geneseo (2009). Currently serves as Assistant Professor of Marketing at Stony Brook University. Directs the Consumers' Affiliative Processes undergraduate research lab. Christie Comunale Accounting Area Head & MS Accounting Program DirectorHarriman 342 Christie.Comunale@stonybrook.edu Christie L. Comunale, Ph.D., CPA joined Stony Brook University in 2013 after serving 14 years in LIU Posts School of Professional Accountancy where she held the rank of Professor of Accounting. Dr. Comunale is a licensed CPA with audit experience at Coopers & Lybrand in Baltimore, MD. Dr. Comunale earned her Ph.D. in accounting from the University of South Florida, and her MBA and BS in accounting from Loyola University Maryland. Dr. Comunale is an award-winning researcher in the areas of auditor and taxpayer judgment and decision-making, and the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit process. She teaches at the undergraduate and graduate levels, and has received many teaching awards including Stony Brook Universitys College of Business Outstanding MBA Instructor Award and Long Island Universitys David Newton Award for excellence in teaching. In 2014, Dr. Comunale founded Stony Brook Universitys Accounting Society, a Society that provides its (80-100) members with opportunities to network with accounting professionals while engaging in career-building workshops. The Society has brought recognition to the University, the College of Business, and its accounting students. Dr. Comunale has received Stony Brook Universitys Faculty Partnership Award in recognition of her accounting community and professional outreach. Lily Blocker Co-Director, MBA ProgramHarriman 256 Lily.Blocker@stonybrook.edu Dr. Lily Blocker is an Associate Professor of Management at Stony Brook University andthe director of the Leadership & Creativity Research Lab. Her work in leadership, innovation, and conflict applies science-based approaches to practical organizational problems.Her research focuses on 1) the process by which leaders overcome failures and 2) the dynamics of innovative teams. Her primary research examines the consequences of leader mistakes and mistake recovery on leader-follower relationships. Her innovation research includes constructs such as teammember influence, team climate, and malevolence. Dr. Blocker's consulting clients include the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Del Monte Foods, Big Heart Pet Brands, PNC Bank, and Gold Coast Bank. Prior to joining Stony Brook, Dr. Blocker was a Post Doctoral Research Fellow at the International Center for the Study of Terrorism, where she studied the process of terrorist deradicalization for a grant from the Office of Naval Research. She holds a Ph.D. in Industrial-Organizational Psychology from Penn State University and a B.A. in Psychology fromCalifornia State University, Fresno. For more information, please visit www.theLCLab.com. Stacey Finkelstein Area Head of MarketingHarriman 347 Stacey.Finkelstein@stonybrook.edu Professor Finkelstein her PhD and MBA from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business in 2011. Broadly speaking, she conducts research at the intersection of marketing and consumer well-being. Her work draws on research from marketing, psychology, economics, and sociology to solve real world problems consumers face. In recognition of her work, she received the American Marketing Association (AMA) Marketing and Society Special Interest Group (MASSIG) Early Career Award in 2019. She is currently on the Editorial Review Board (ERB) of the Journal for Marketing Research, the Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, the Journal of Consumer Affairs, and Appetite. She is also guest-editing a special issue on Marketing and Consumer Well-being in the journal Appetite. She was also on the ERB for the Journal of Consumer Research from 2016-2018. Richard Laskowski SUNY Korea LiaisonHarriman 314-C Richard.Laskowski@stonybrook.edu Professor Laskowski has spent most of his life in the world of sports as a student-athlete, a coach, an administrator, and as a consultant. He competed on the high school and college level in baseball, basketball, and squash, and officiated in baseball and basketball, and have been an administrator on the high school and college level. In recent years he has served as a consultant to Presidents and College Athletics Directors on sports-related issues. He served for 29 years as an administrator in college athletics, 19 at St. John's University, and 10 as the Dean of Physical Education and Athletics at Stony Brook. He founded two Summer Baseball camps - one at St. John's University and one at Lutheran High School in Brookville, Long Island. Upon leaving athletics he returned to the classroom as a Professor in the College of Business where he currently resides. He also serves as a consultant for Intercollegiate Athletic Consulting, a company that reviews all aspects of a university's athletics program. Margot Palermo Director Undergraduate Business Honors ProgramHarriman 335 Margot.Palermo@stonybrook.edu Margot Palermo is currently an Instructor in the Management Area in the College of Business, teaching Business Strategy, Business Communications and Business Ethics. She is also the Director of the Business Honors Program. This program is for high achieving business majors who aspire to be entrepreneurs or executives in business, government or nonprofit sectors. Students in the BHP Program can partner with a corporate sponsor to design an experiential program for their senior year that promotes the synergies of what they learn in the classroom with the application of these lessons in the workplace. The BHP student can also choose to work with a research professor and present at URECA. Margot also works with companies in an experiential academic setting. For example, the Business Strategy class and Broadridge partnership to oversee students enhance revenue and lower costs. Margot also acts as Stony Brook University's Faculty Athletic Representative. Christine Pitocco Co-Director, Undergraduate Business ProgramHarriman 333 Christine.Pitocco@stonybrook.edu Prior to teaching at Stony Brooks College of Business, Dr. Pitocco worked as a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Bachelor of Health Science Program, Clinical Laboratory Science Program, and Master of Science in Healthcare Policy and Management at Stony Brook University. She earned a PhD in Information Studies and Technology from LIU C.W. Post. She gained her clinical expertise while she was the evening supervisor of the Blood Bank at University Hospital Stony Brook. Prior to joining Stony Brook she was the day supervisor in the Immunochemistry Department and a medical technologist at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre. Gary Sherman Co-Director, MBA ProgramHarriman 204 Gary.Sherman@stonybrook.edu Gary Sherman received his Ph.D. in Social Psychology from the University of Virginia. Before joining Stony Brook, Sherman was a postdoctoral fellow at the Harvard Initiative for Learning and Teaching and at the Center for Public Leadership at Harvard Kennedy School. His work has appeared in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, and Psychological Science. Jadranka Skorin-Kapov Area Head of ManagementHarriman 323 Jadranka.Skorin-Kapov@stonybrook.edu Jadranka Skorin-Kapov has a diverse educational background, with three PhDs: in Operations Research, in Philosophy, and in Art History and Criticism. Her work in Operations Research includes applications of discrete optimization to network design, manufacturing design, scheduling, and location and layout. She developed algorithms (heuristic search and learning, and polynomial algorithms for special cases) for difficult decision problems arising in engineering and business areas. Skorin-Kapov is the author or the co-author of about 70 refereed publications in the field of Operations Research, and a recipient of a number of grants, including five National Science Foundation grants, a Fulbright award, and Ideas Worth Teaching Award from the Aspen Insitute. Skorin-Kapovs research in philosophy is in the area of Continental Philosophy, especially aesthetics and the phenomenology of surprise. Janie Forrest-Glotzer Faculty AdministratorHarriman 306 Janie.Forrest-Glotzer@stonybrook.edu631-632-7999 Janie serves as the Faculty Administrator in the Deans Office of the Stony Brook University College of Business.Previously, she worked as an Instructional Support Associate at the Student Information Campus Administrative Systems (SICAS) Center at SUNY Oneonta.Prior to her SUNY work, she was employed in accounting, insurance, banking and retail businesses.A native of Upstate, N.Y., Forrest-Glotzer holds a Bachelors of Science in Consumer Economics from State University at Oneonta. Office of Student Services - 109 Harriman Hall The Office of Student Services (OSS) is the main academic advising center for the College of Business. The office advises business majors, accounting minors, MBA, MS in Accounting and MS in Finance students. The office also meets with prospective MBA and MS students. Staff are available from Monday to Friday from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. Joyce Gibson MBA, MS Admissions Recruitment Advisor Harriman 109 Joyce.Gibson@stonybrook.edu 631-632-7171 Joyce Gibson is the MBA/MS Admissions Recruitment Advisor in the College of Business. She is a strong higher education professional with a Master's degree in Human Services Leadership and a Bachelor's degree focused in Business Administration from Five Towns College. Joyce has been working in higher education on Long Island for 20 years in roles that have included admissions and recruitment, advisement, registration and records, and career services. Joyce has been working in the College of Business since 2015. She works with the graduate business students from the admissions process through graduation. She has always been passionate about working with the adult and non-traditional populations of students to help them succeed in their educational goals. FaithMatranga Director, CoB Office of Student ServicesHarriman 109 Faith.Matranga@stonybrook.edu631-632-7171 Faith is the Director of theOffice of Student Services in the College of Business. She received a BA in Social Science and Education from Dowling College and two graduate degrees from Stony Brook University; one in Human Resource Management and the other in Higher Education Administration. Faith has been working in the College of Business since 2007. Prior to working at Stony Brook University, Faith spent several years as an Admissions Counselor at a private Long Island College. Marie McCallion Manager, Marketing and Community RelationsHarriman 103C Marie.McCallion@stonybrook.edu631-632-7476 Marie is the Manager of Marketing and Community Relations for the College of Business. She works to promote various events and programs of the College of Business, including the MBA & MS programs, guest speakers, and ways in which students and the business community can interact. This includes student internships and student projects, where students become consultants to local organizations. Samantha Nash Undergraduate AdvisorHarriman 109 Samantha.Nash@stonybrook.edu631-632-7171 Samantha is the Undergraduate Advisor for the College of Business. She received a BA in Business Administration and Hospitality & Tourism Management, then continued on to receive an Executive M.B.A from St. Joseph's College. Prior to working at Stony Brook University, Samantha spent a few years as a Senior Operations Specialist for the Advising & Enrichment Center at New York Institute of Technology. About Us Dean's Message Mission Statement Strategic Plan Governance COB Fast Facts Faculty Directory Administration and Staff Dean's Advisory Board CEO Leadership Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Student Advisory Board Alumni Assurance of Learning See pages scholarships College of Business Scholarship Comberiate Memorial Scholarship Empire National Bank Scholarship Gold Coast Bank Scholarship Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of Suffolk County Scholarship London Endowed Award NYCB Real Estate Scholarship Real Estate Institute Scholarship W. Turner Founding Dean Scholarship About Us Dean's Message Mission Statement Strategic Plan Governance COB Fast Facts Faculty Directory Administration and Staff Dean's Advisory Board CEO Leadership Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Undergraduate Student Advisory Board Alumni Assurance of Learning See pages scholarships College of Business Scholarship Comberiate Memorial Scholarship Empire National Bank Scholarship Gold Coast Bank Scholarship Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of Suffolk County Scholarship London Endowed Award NYCB Real Estate Scholarship Real Estate Institute Scholarship W. Turner Founding Dean Scholarship Facebook Twitter instagram linkedin flickr print College of Business Office of Student Services Harriman Hall 109 Stony Brook University Stony Brook, New York 11794-3775 Phone: (631) 632-7171 collegeofbusiness@stonybrook.edu Report an accessibility barrier Admin Login 2021 Stony Brook University
