Faculty Members | Business Management Skip to main content Toggle navigation Main navigation Home About Us Academics Course Schedule People Faculty Members Staff Student & Activities Search form Search Menu Home About Us Academics Course Schedule People Faculty Members Staff Student & Activities Jeehong Kim E. jeehong.kim@sunykorea.ac.kr / T.032-626-1950 Jeehong Kim is a Department Chair and a Professor in Business Management at SUNY Korea. Dr. Kim earned his B.A. degree from YonseiUniversity, an MBA from IndianaUniversity, and a Ph.D. degreefrom the University of California at Berkeley. Upon earned his doctorate, he became an assistant professor at New York University for two years, and he has been a professorat Yonsei University from 1989 to 2020. Dr. Kim has served as a Chief Accountant of the Financial Supervisory Service of Korea from 2007 to 2009, and also has served as a President of Korea Accounting association, and a President of Korea Accounting Information Association. He has served as an Independent director of many large corporations such as SEAH Besteel, Noroo Paintings, Korea Ratings. His research interests are in the quality of financial reporting, effectiveness of accounting regulations and accounting policies, and the impact of accounting standards, including IFRS. His research works were published in many top academic journals. Most recently, his research papers were published in the Managerial Auditing Journal, and the Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics. He has been working as an editorial board member of the Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. His teaching interests are Financial Accounting, Financial Statement Analysis, Valuation, and management accounting. Chihmao Hsieh E. chihmao.hsieh@sunykorea.ac.kr Chihmao Hsieh is AssociateProfessor of Entrepreneurship and Founding Director of the Center for Global Entrepreneurship at SUNY Korea. He publishes and researches a wide variety of topics, ranging from the effects of training and education on self-employment, to the value of patented inventions, to the effect of cultural industry on modes of entrepreneurship. His work has appeared (or is forthcoming) in Organization Science, Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice, Journal of Management Studies, Small Business Economics, Scientometrics and others.He has been invited to give academic talks at the Kauffman Foundation and at universities in eight countries.In 2019, he gave invited presentations at the United Nations Secretariat (NYC) and the Asian Development Bank (Manila). At SUNY Korea, Dr. Hsieh teaches business, management, and entrepreneurship courses.At previous institutions, he taught entrepreneurship to undergraduates, MBA's, and for Executive Education, in addition to designing, executing, and coordinating entire entrepreneurship minors.His PhD is in Strategy from the Olin School of Business at Washington University in St. Louis, and he holds bachelor's and master's degrees in engineering from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Kyung Kyu Kim E. kyungkyu.kim@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1316 Kyung Kyu Kim is a Research Professor in Business Management at SUNY Korea. Dr. Kim earned a BA degree in Business Administration from Seoul National University, and both MBA and Ph.D. degrees in Business Administration from the University of Utah. He has held academic appointments at Yonsei University (18 years; 2 years as a Dean), University of Southern California (5 years), Pennsylvania State University (4 years), University of Cincinnati (4 years), and Nanyang Technological University in Singapore (1 semester). He has published over 50 academic research papers, for example, in MIS Quarterly, Accounting Review, Journal of MIS, JAIS, European Journal of Information Systems, Information & Management, Decision Sciences, Omega, and the Journal of Business Research. Dr. Kim has consulted for many business organizations in various industries encompassing logistics, manufacturing, banking and finance, and food production. These companies include Korean Airlines, Hanjin Shipping, LG Otis Elevator, LG Cards, LG CNS, Nong Shim Food, Samsung Data Systems, Hansol Papers, Shinhan Bank, and Dong Yang Securities. He has taught various courses including Digital Transformation in the Global Enterprise, Digital Business Strategy, Big Data and Business Analytics Management, Information Management in Supply Chains, Information Systems Analysis and Design, and seminars in Digital Business Research as well as Knowledge Management. Sungjoon Nam E. sungjoon.nam@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1957 Sungjoon Nam is a Research Assistant Professor of Marketing at SUNY Korea. He has served as an Assistant Professor at Rutgers Business School and as a visiting Assistant Professor at the City University of Hong Kong. Also, he is the founder of Number Analytics, a cloud-based statistical software firm that provides online marketing analytics for marketing professionals and business schools. His research areas include Direct Salesforce Resource Allocation, New Product Diffusion, Customer Relationship Management, Omni Channel Retailing, Impulse Buying Behavior, and Service Quality. His research has been published in Marketing Science and Industrial Marketing Management and has been profiled in MIT Sloan Management Review. He teaches Principles of Marketing and Marketing Research at SUNY Korea and has taught Customer Relationship Management, New Product Planning, and Retail Management at previous institutions.Dr. Nam earned his Ph.D. in Marketing and M.B.A. from the University of Chicago in 2010 and holds Bachelors degrees in electrical engineering and economics from Seoul National University. Jae-Yeong Lee E. jaeyeong.lee@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1960 Jae-YeongLee is a Research Professor atSUNYKorea. He earned aBSEin Civil Engineering from the Korea Military Academy, a Master's Degree in Operations Research from theUSNaval Postgraduate School, and aPh.D. in Operations Research & Statistics from North Carolina State University. His research and teaching areas include Operations Management, Quantitative Analysis, Statistics, and Mathematical Modeling, being highly specialized inapplications to defense industries. Recently, he had successfully served as a team leader for a 6-year research project in the evaluation of combat effectiveness of Unmanned Ground Vehicle for future warfare. Currently, he is developing a new framework of meta model incorporating AI and Big-data application suited for Korea's business market. AtSUNYKorea, he teaches Business Statistics,DecisionScience,and Calculus. Woon-Oh Jung E. woon-oh.jung@sunykorea.ac.kr / T.032-626-1812 Woon-Oh Jung is a Leading Professor at State University of New York (SUNY), Korea. He was aProfessor of Accounting at Seoul National University from 1998 to 2019.He did his undergraduate work in international economics at SNU, and received his MBA degree from Cornell University, and his Ph.D. in Management from UCLA. His research has involved the application of information economics and game theory to various issues and problems in accounting and taxation. His early research employed the signaling paradigm to demonstrate how accounting changes by managers convey information to the capital market, and how much inside information managers disclose (or withhold) in equilibrium. His research interests have broadened later considerably to include taxation. His research in taxation addressed how taxpayer uncertainty about the actual post-audit tax liability can influence the reporting decisions of taxpayers, the audit policy of the tax enforcement agency, and social welfare. More recently, his research interests have shifted toward more practical issues in the area of tax planning. His research works were published in the Accounting Review, Journal of Accounting Research, Contemporary Accounting Research, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Journal of the American Taxation Association, Economics Letter, Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies, and many more academic and professional journals. Joung Hwa Choi E. jounghwa.choi@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1952 Joung Hwa Choi is an Assistant Professor of Finance at SUNY Korea. Previously, she was an Assistant Professor of Finance at Kangnam University, a visiting scholar at the Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University, a research associate at the Institute of Finance and Banking, Seoul National University, and an economist at the Bank of Korea. As an impactful scholar with a Ph.D. in finance from Seoul National University, she has published in some of the highly respected finance journals likeJournal of Banking and Finance,Journal of International Money and Finance,Emerging Markets Review,Finance Research Letters, etc. Before earning her Ph.D. in Finance fromSeoul National University in 2015, she was an Economist at the Bank of Korea for 6 years. Seung-Wook Kim E. seungwook.kim@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1955 Seung Wook Kim is an Adjunct Professor at SUNY Korea. He earned his BS, MS, and Ph.D. in MIS/OM at Chung-Ang University, and his research interests broadly cover Digital Transformation and Intelligence Enterprise, ERP Systems, Big Data, and Customer Relationship Management, Entrepreneurial Business, Supply Chain Management, Technology Marketing and Management of Technology. He was a Senior Research Fellow at Yonsei University Business Research Institute. Also, he worked at PWC(PricewaterhouseCoopers), Deloitte Consulting and SAP Korea as Management and IT Consultant. Young-JuneKwon E. youngjune.kwon@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1956 Young-Jung Kwon is a Leading Professor at SUNY Korea. He earned his BA in Economics from Seoul National University and a Ph.D. in Finance from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. He was a Professor of Finance at Kyung-Hee University from 1999 to 2017 and has also served as Independent Director and Chairman of the Auditing Committee at KEB-HANA Banking Corporation. His teaching & research areas include Principal-Agent Relationships, Contract Theory, Investment Theory, Financial Institutions, and Financial Markets. Young-Won Ha E. youngwon.ha@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1958 Young-Won Ha is a Leading Professor at SUNY Korea. He earned his BA from Seoul National University and received his MBA and Ph.D. in marketing at the University of Chicago, Graduate School of Business (currently Chicago Booth School of Business). Professor Has research has been published in top-tier academic journals including theJournal of Consumer Research, Marketing Letters, Psychological Review,and theJournal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory & Cognition. He also received a total of five best paper awards from the Korean Society of Consumer Studies and the Korean Marketing Association. His teaching interests include courses in Consumer Behavior, Marketing Management, Consumer Decision Making, and Brand Management. He received the best teaching awards three times when he served as Professor of Marketing at Sogang University. In-Ki Joo E. inki.joo@sunykorea.ac.kr /T. 032-626-1961 In-Ki Joois a Leading Professor in Business Management at SUNY Korea. Dr. Jooearned his B.A. degree from YonseiUniversity, an MBA from Seoul National University and New York University, and a Ph.D. degreefrom the New York University. Upon earned his doctorate, he became a full time instructor at City University of New York for three years, and he has been a professorat Yonsei University since1981. Dr. Joohas been serving as a President of International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), New York since 2018,Board member and Chair of Audit Committee of Hanjin KAL since 2019. His teaching interest is The principles of Accounting Auditing Business Ethics and hisresearch interests are in Capital Market and International Accounting Auditing. Chung-seung Lee E. chungseung.lee@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1953 Chung-seung Lee is an Assistant Professor in Business Management at SUNY Korea. Dr. Lee earned his B.S. degree from Korea University majoring in Industrial Engineering, M.S. degree in Management Engineering from KAIST, and Ph.D. in Operations Management from The University of Texas at Dallas.His primary research interests include revenue management and supply chain management. His teaching interests include operations and supply chain management, business analytics, and decision science. Jong Seok Kim E. jongseok.kim@sunykorea.ac.kr / T. 032-626-1962 Jong Seok Kim is a Leading Professor in Business Management at SUNY Korea. Dr. Kim earned his B.S. degreein Economics from Seoul National University and Ph.D. in Economics from Princeton University. He is an Adjunct Professor at Hong Ik University, and former member of the National Assembly. He was a professor of economics at Hong Ik University in Seoul for 25 years until May 2016, when he was elected as member of the National Assembly. He served as President of Korea Economic Research Institute in 2007-2009. His areas of expertise are government regulation, competition policy, and public sector reform. His recent research interest has been on the role of government in market system and economic development. Useful Links SUNY Korea Stony Brook University |College of Business Stony Brook University Facebook Contact Us The Department of Business Management SUNY Korea B519 Academic Building 119 Songdo Moonwha-ro, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, Korea 21985 Tel:82-32-626-1357, +82-32-626-1951 Office Hours: 9:00am - 6:00pm, Monday ~ Friday
