Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Dept of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Overview Established in the year 1960, the Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering has been at the forefront to produce well-groomed graduates, possessing sound technical skills and innovative ideas to cater to the ever-growing demands of the industry. The department is backed by a team of motivated, dedicated, and experienced teachers with expertise in key domains such as Control Systems, Power & Energy Systems, Artificial Intelligence, Embedded Systems and Lighting Science. The key features of the department are, One of the largest departments at MIT Manipal and in existence for more than 50 years Best-in-class infrastructure and faculty profile Curriculum is designed to facilitate students in pursuing higher education in India and abroad Strong industry interface with leading companies like Schneider Electric, CISCO, etc. Placements offered by various core companies Department Vision and Mission Vision Excellence in Electrical & Electronics Engineering Education through innovative practices and teamwork Mission To produce qualified, motivated, and well-rounded graduates possessing fundamental knowledge of electrical and electronics engineering who can provide solutions and services to the community at large. To promote research & innovation, and to keep abreast of emerging technologies in electrical and electronics engineering in order to serve the needs of industry, scientific community, and society. Department Areas of Expertise Power & Energy Systems:The department is specialized in the core areas of power and energy systems which include power system optimization and control, power electronics and drives, electric vehicles, microgrid operation and control, power quality improvement and other related areas. Control System: The department has the expertise and infrastructure support for simulation assisted learning and development of control applications in different research areas. The department offers an industry-accepted simulation-assisted control system design course for the students for postgraduate and undergraduate levels. Artificial Intelligence: Artificial Intelligence is one of the specializations which emphasizes on solving real time applications using soft computing techniques. This research group focusses on inter disciplinary projects and encourages students to undertake the same in the field of Artificial Intelligence. Embedded Systems: Department has expertise in embedded system software development and hardware prototype realization using various microcontroller platform. Facility available in associated labs are utilized in embedded system applications in various fields of electrical and electronics engineering like power and energy systems, Illumination engineering, power electronics and drives, instrumentation and control. Lighting: The department faculties have expertise in lighting design, photometric testing & its analysis, reliability analysis of solid-state lighting luminaires, lighting control technologies and related applications. the department has very good infrastructure facility to support research in lighting & energy studies External Collaborations The department has MoU with Schneider Electric Ltd., Cranes Software under the TI University Program and SELCO foundation Specialized Labs Power and Energy Systems Lab: Power system analysis & stability, power system protection, power system operation & control and energy management Power Electronics Lab: Design of filter circuit for rectifiers and dc-dc converters, design and implement controller for inverter circuits, power quality analysis of AC voltage controllers, circuit simulation and hardware implementation of various power converter topologies. Microcontroller and Instrumentation Lab: Programming, simulation, hardware development and interfacing for embedded systems and measurements & instrumentation. Keil uVision software with 8051 and ARM for programming and hardware interface. NI LabVIEW with NI DAQ cards for programming and hardware interface. Electrical Machines Lab: Facilities to determine and analyze performance characteristics of single-phase and three-phase transformers, DC motors and generators, single-phase and three-phase induction motors, synchronous motors, salient pole, and cylindrical rotor alternators Lighting Measurement Lab: Photometric, electrical, and thermal analysis of lighting systems using gonio photometer, integrating sphere, humidity chamber, luxmeter, luminance meter, spectrophotometer Analog System Design Lab: Design, implementation, testing and verification of regulated power supply, MOSFET based amplifiers, Op-Amp based amplifiers, frequency analysis of RC coupled amplifier, second order butter worth filter, Schmitt trigger circuits and Signal generation, 555 timer-based multivibrator Digital System Design Lab: Modelling and developing combinational and sequential logic circuits using IC trainer kit. Digital System Design using Verilog HDL and implementation on Nexys 4 DDR FPGA Energy System Simulation Lab: The lab is used for energy assessment and analysis for buildings, interior and exterior lighting design using software packages like DIALux, eQUEST, IES Virtual Environment (IESVE), MATLAB etc. Solid State Drives Lab: To design and analyse the isolated, non-isolated converter and VSI inverter using MATLAB and SIMULINK tool. Power quality analysis of AC voltage controller, speed control of motor using power electronics DSP-based chopper fed dc drives. Micro controller based VSI fed-induction motor speed control. Load test on BLDC motor using power electronics converters. Digital Signal Processing Lab: Generate and perform transformation of discrete time signals in time domain and understand their spectral components in the frequency domain, use computational techniques, design frequency selective discrete time systems, design finite impulse response (FIR) and infinite impulse response (IIR) filters. Placement Details The department is well supported by the institute placement team. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES. Some of the major recruiters with a CTC of 10+ Lakhs for the department are Tata Power, ABB, Schneider Electric, L & T, GE, KPMG ITA, Robert Bosch etc. Programs The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: B. Tech. - Electrical & Electronics Engineering:The undergraduate program of the department offers a unique blend of core and elective courses. The laboratory exercises and mini projects are carefully designed to ensure synchronism with the curriculum, and exposure to relevant software & hardware packages related to the field of learning. The curriculum design enables the graduates to embark on a professional career or pursue higher studies in their area of interest. M. Tech. - Power Electronics & Drives: The program was introduced in the year 2008 as M. Tech in Power Electronics System and Control. Curriculum was thoroughly revised taking input from all stake holders in 2016 and program is renamed as Power Electronics and Drives. Current intake for the program is 18. This program is designed to cater the expert manpower requirement in the field of Power electronic converters, electric drives, electric vehicles, power systems and associated control. The program provides additional knowledge in the fields of embedded systems, applications of power electronics in power system, machine modelling for meeting the expectations of the industry & research. Faculty Ciji Pearl Kurian Professor Chandrashekara S. Adiga Professor & HoD Dr.Vinod V Thomas Professor Dr.Giridhar Kini P Professor Savitha G. Kini Professor Jayalakshmi N. S. Professor Shivarudraswamy R. Associate Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-News Letter Click the following link to view the half-yearly department e-newsletter: Vol 6, Issue 1: September 2021 Vol 4, Issue 1: June 2020 Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Manipal allowed me a lot of freedom to explore my interests, both in academics and in extracurricular activities. This helped me learn a lot of skills that have helped me immensely over the years. I wish you are able to make the best of these opportunities too Mukund Poddar MIT, Manipal About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
