Department of Media Technology - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Media Technology Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Media Technology Overview Since the inception of the Department in 1992, global communication has propelled us into the new millennium with engineering innovations and newer technologies to evolve into incorporating Electronic Media along side Printing Media offering a Bachelors Degree in Printing Technology (Awaiting approval from AICTE for change in nomenclature to "Media Technology") .The department provides comprehensive in-depth study in modern Graphic Arts Technology and Media Sciences. The focus areas are Media Production, Printing Technology, Packaging Technology, Printed Electronics, 3D Printing, Color Analysis and Management. Department Vision and Mission: Vision Excellence in Print and Electronic Media education through continuous learning, research and teamwork. Mission To impart excellent Print and Electronic Media education for professional roles in a changing and challenging technological world, to advance knowledge through quality research in important emerging areas in the discipline, and to build a strong relationship with industry, academia, and society. Department Areas of Expertise Media Studio:The department has state of the art media studio infrastructural support for recording and editing video and sound giving life to creativity. Printing Technology: Department facilitates expertisation in the areas of Offset Technology, Flexography and Gravure Printing, Screen Printing and Digital Printing domains. Packaging Technology:The department has expertise in packaging material science, techniques, processes and various applications. Printed Electronics:The department has expertise in packaging material science, techniques, processes and various applications. 3D printing:The department has expertise in 3D prototype development and 3D materials. Color Analyses and Management: The department has industry standard equipments to measure, monitor and analyse color. Profiling devices and measuring print attributes for color consistency. External Collaborations The department has a MoU with ESKO, Bengaluru. Specialized Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs in the following areas of Print and Electronic Media. Media lab:The newly Setup Media Studio complete with industry standard hardware and software providestudents with abundant opportunities to excel with their creativity. Digital Photography Lab:Framing, Composition, Lighting,Post processing in Adobe Light Room, Macro photography, Travel/Architecture, Product photography, Fashion photography, Time-lapse, long exposure and HDR photography and processing. Colour science lab: Impact of Illumination on perception, Profiling of display, Input and Output devices, and analysis of print variables. Digital Graphic Design Lab: Working with Adobe Creative Suit to unleash the creative capabilities of students. Quality Testing Lab: Well equipped to analyse paper and ink properties meeting industry standards. Binding and Packaging Lab: Hard-Case Book, Coatings, Lamination,Thermography, Foil Stamping,Die Punching, Carton Making, with hands-onESKO ArtiosCAD 3D drafting solution andGraphic designing for Paperboard packaging using ESKO Deskpack 12. Machine Lab: From Pre-Press to Print, department lab offers hands-on for Offset, Flexograghy, Gravure and Screen Printing. These Laboratories are equipped with: Latest software from Esko Graphics for Packaging designing Xitron Navigator RIP and Technova PoliRIP for prepress technology IGT Printability Tester and KPP Flexo proofer for Quality Testing, X- rite devices and software to study colour Management Hybrid Flexo Cum Gravure Machine and Auto Print offset machines for printing purposes Placement Details The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. In addition to this, Media Department also has a strong base of industry contacts and aid students with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies. Some of the industry names that have recruited our students in the recent past (ONLY A FEW and not in any particular order) are: Manipal Technologies Ltd., Times of India, Hindustan Times Media Ltd., Kodak India Ltd., Hewlett Packard India, Thomson Press, ITC India Ltd., Serox India Ltd., Repro India Ltd., EFI, ESKO, Technova, Heidelberg India Ltd., Malayalam Manaroma, Siegwerk India, Printo, PhotoKina Chemicals Pvt Ltd., Delta Printing Press Dubai, Khaleej Times Dubai, Atlas Printing Press Dubai, Printwell Dubai, Future Cards Sharjah, Emairates Printing Press LLC Dubai, Workz Middle East FZE, Storaenso Germany, Precise Print Pack Nairobi. In addition, Graduates can be entrepreneurs, consultants or a freelancer in digital photography, graphic designing, copy writer, sound engineering, graphics, multimedia & web design, animation technology, printing material testing, colour analysis & reproduction, and e-publishing. After completing the program, graduates can go for higher studies or can write GRE/TOEFL and apply for further studies abroad in universities like Rochester Institute of Technology, London College of Communication, Chemnitz University of Technology, and other universities in UK, US, Germany, Australia and Canada. Students interested in Management subjects can also opt for Master's in Business Administration. Thermography and foil stamping Programs The Department of Media Technology, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Printing Technology:The BTech program in Printing Technology (Awaiting approval from AICTE for change in nomenclature to Media Technology) gives students a unique scope to venture into print and electronic media. A well balanced applied engineering course which deals with Digital Graphic Design, Material Science, Offset Technology, Audio Video Studios, Electronic Media, Flexography, Gravure and Screen Printing, Digital Photography, Animation Technology, Digital Print Systems, Sound Engineering, Color Science and Technology, Industrial Book Binding and Print Finishing, Video Codecs and Standards, Video Production, Packaging Design and Testing, Continuous Stationery and Specialty Printing, Security Printing, Principles of Advertising, Media Research, Packaging Management, Quality Management for Graphic Arts, Printronics, Media Law and Ethics, E-Publishing, and Graphic Designing to mention a few. Course is designed to keep them in sync with advances in technology and prepare them for lifelong learning. The curriculum is designed to provide flexibility for students to opt for minor specialization offered by the department and online courses by reputed international universities. M.Tech - Printing and Media Technology:The MTech program in Print and Media Technology provides a good blend of theoretical concepts and practical hands-on training in various print related courses. Well designed course offers comprehensive study of media production, commercial printing, publishing and e-publishing, advertising solutions, designing and digital printing, colour management solutions, software solution for print industry, security printing, print finishing and converting, packaging solutions, machine manufacturing / service, research and development.The program prepares the students to be suitable for various challenging roles in print industry and aslo to carry out industry oriented research. Faculty Dr. Amrutharaj H Krishnan Professor and HOD Asha Srinivasa Pai Assistant Professor - Selection Grade Dr. Nagaraj Kamath H Assistant Professor - Selection Grade Ramakrishna Nayak Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Vinod Kamath Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Ramnath Shenoy Assistant Professor - Senior Scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research The areas of research are Print Applied Research Colour Science Production Management Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
