Department of Civil Engineering (BTech and Mtech in Civil Engineering) at MAHE Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Civil Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Civil Engineering Overview The Civil Engineering Department, founded in 1957, is the first branch to be set up at MIT. It has become a centre of excellence in the Civil Engineering field over the years. The department is committed to educating the students in the field of Civil Engineering, with professional skills and ethical values through the holistic teaching-learning process and prepare the students to face the societal challenges and to meet the needs of the stakeholders. Department Vision and Mission Vision "Excellence in Civil Engineering education, research and development through innovation and teamwork". Mission To educate the students in the field of civil engineering, with professional skills and ethical values through holistic teaching-learning process. To prepare the students to face the societal challenges and to meet the needs of the stakeholders. Department Areas of Expertise The department has expertise in the following area and focus on research. Structural Engineering:Push over analysis, soil structure interaction, Finite element analysis. Concrete Technology:Self compacting concrete, No Aggregate Concrete, Alkali Activated Concrete/Geopolymer Concrete. Geotechnical Engineering:Soil stabilisation Environmental Engineering:Water quality, Effluent treatment External Collaborations The department has MoU's with CSIR CBRI Roorkee, Bentley Institute, DK Nirmithi Kendra, Infinity PMC private ltd., Eco carbon pvt ltd., ALTAIR India, Curtin Unversity Perth,Leibniz Universitat Hannover, ESME Sudria Engineering School, PARIS,Faizal and Shabana Foundations, NHAI. Specialized Labs The department has well-equipped laboratories to handle practical courses to undergraduate and postgraduate, conduct research and consultancy work. Concrete and Highway Material Testing Lab:Concrete flow measuring devices, shrinkage and permeability measuring devices. Environmental Engineering Lab:Water quality testing devices, effluent and pollution measuring devices. Fluid Mechanic Lab:Water velocity measuring devices, orifice and mouthpiece, flumes and weir Geotechnical Engineering Lab:Devices used for soil characterisation, Box shear, Unconfined compression testing device, Triaxial testing device (analog and digital) Strength of Materials Lab:Compression, tension, fatigue, hardness and impact testing devices Structural Engineering Lab:Universal testing machine, loading frames, prestressing unit, NDT instruments. Computation Lab:STAAD pro, Etabs, CAD, BIM, Openroad Design. Survey Lab:EDM and Total station. KEF R&D Centre:500 tonnage capacity loading frame, pre-stressing unit, flexural fatigue testing unit, thermal conductivity testing unit. Placement Details The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES.Graduates and postgraduates are employed in core industries such as L&T, Total Environment, and TCE, Infosys, and MU-Sigma, among others. Program The department of Civil Engineering offers the following programs: B. Tech Civil Engineering: B.Tech in Civil Engineering involves the application of mathematics, science and technology in planning, designing, construction and management of buildings and infrastructures. The course imparts knowledge in the areas of Building Technology, Fluid Mechanics, Environmental Engineering, Structural Engineering, Water Resources Engineering, Surveying, Geotechnical Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Geoinformatics, and so forth.The curriculum is designed to provide flexibility for students to opt for minor specialization offered by the department and online courses by reputed international universities. M.Tech in Structural Engineering:After completing a bachelor's degree in civil engineering, an engineer can pursue a master's degree in Structural Engineering in the Department of Civil Engineering. The two-year curriculum covers advanced design and safety techniques for residential and industrial infrastructures. The program's curriculum is learner-centered, industry-focused, and research-driven, allowing engineers plenty of opportunities to advance their careers or pursue research after graduation. M.Tech in Construction Engineering and Management:The M.Tech. in Construction Engineering and Management offered in the Department of Civil Engineering is a two-year postgraduate program that teaches students the most current concepts in construction planning, scheduling, management, and safety. The syllabi emphasise developing the managerial abilities needed in the construction business and being research-driven. After completing the degree, the specialist will have numerous chances to work in government departments, the public and private sectors, academia, and research. M.Tech in Environmental Engineering:Graduates of Civil Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Chemical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering can pursue the M.Tech in Environmental Engineering program offered by the Department of Civil Engineering at MIT-Manipal. Water quality, solid waste and sewage waste management, effluent treatments, pollution control, environmental safety, risk assessment, and management are among the topics covered within the two-year curriculum. The curriculum is focused on industry and research. Government, public and commercial sectors, academia, and research are all options for someone with a post-graduate degree in Environmental Engineering. Doctoral research program:The Department of Civil Engineering in MIT-Manipal offers a full-time research program in pertinent areas such as Concrete Technology, Structural Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Water Resource Engineering, Construction Engineering and Management, and Environmental Engineering. Faculty Dr.Jagadeesha B Pai Associate Professor Girish M G Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Radhika Bhandary P Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Avinash AR Assistant Professor Senior Scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-News Letter Click the following link to view the half-yearly Department E-Newsletter NEWSBITCSE : Vol 1 : Issue 2: September 2021 Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
