Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering Overview The department of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering at Manipal Institute of Technology was established in 2008 and offers TWO undergraduate programs and THREE postgraduate programs. The department has state-of-the-art infrastructure- Autoclave, Flight Simulator, Low Subsonic Wind Tunnel, Advanced Composites Lab, Computation Lab, Gas Turbine Testing Rig, Avionics Lab, Trinidad TB 20 aircraft. The department houses theCenter of Excellence for Avionicsunder the flagship of Manipal Academy of Higher Education. Department Vision and Mission Vision "Excellence in Education of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering fortified through Innovation and Teamwork" Mission M1: Educate students professionally to face societal challenges M2: Provide a conducive environment for learning, reinforced with the principles of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering M3: Promote Creativity and nurture Teamwork Program Educational Objectives PEO 1: Recognize the need for innovative product necessary for survival, safety and comfort of the society and adapt to technological innovations. PEO 2: Apply modern computational, analytical and simulation tools and the latest techniques to address the challenges faced in automobile and aeronautical engineering streams. PEO 3: Communicate effectively and convey ideas using innovative engineering tools and demonstrate leadership skills. PEO 4: Get employed as successful engineers in automobile and aeronautical industries, become entrepreneurs and pursue higher studies. PEO 5: Practice professional ethics, work in multicultural environments, promote social harmony, engage in community service and contribute to improve and sustain the green environment. Department Areas of Expertise Aerodynamics: The department has the expertise and infrastructure for subsonic flows across automotive, aircraft and building aerodynamics Composite Materials: The Advanced Composite Materials lab contains state-of-the art infrastructure for fabrication of composite materials and mechanical characterization- Tensile, Compression, Flexural bending, Impact, Torsion, Hardness, and Fatigue. The facilities like Non-destructive testing, and ultrasonic C-scan for failure assessment. Propulsion: The department has given keen attention to this vital branch of science for propelling the aircrafts. The lab promotes exposure to Nozzle flows, Free Jet and Wall Jet measurements, burning velocity in premixed combustion, efficiency of turbomachines used in propulsion, and mini-gas turbine experiments. Aircraft Structures: Emphasis is given to the experimental methods for the analysis of structural loads on aircbraft structural components, the modes of failure and corrective action to prevent such failures. Tribology: The department is specialized in the wear and frictional studies of bearings, friction linings for automobiles, Slurry erosion test setup for wear analysis under marine conditions. Transmission system: The department has procured advanced powertrains for IC engine driven, Test Rigs for electric and hybrid electric vehicles, Regenerative braking. Bio Mechanics: The department is gaining prominence in this niche area of research spanning biomechanics, biofluidics and biomimetics. Noise, Harshness and Vibration: Active research is being conducted on dynamic properties of smart material based dampers (Magnetorheological elastomers and fluids), Acoustic characterization of different materials. External Collaborations The department has tie-ups with Toyota Kirloskar Motors Ltd, LDRA, NI Logic Pvt Ltd,iSpAgro Robotics Pvt Ltd ,National Instruments, Electro Systems Associates Pvt Ltd, Technilab Instruments, Rohde and Schwarz. Specialized Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs in the following areas of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering. Vibrations and Acoustics Lab:Electrodynamic shaker, Impedance tube, Accelerometer and Force Transducers, Impact hammer, LabView for Data acquistion Advanced Composite Lab: Autoclave, Resin Infusion Moulding equipment, Filament winding machine, Compression Moulding setup, Vacuum Bagging, Testing facility for mechanical characterization- Impact, Tensile, Compressive, Flexural, Fatigue, Torsional, Hardness, Environmental chamber for moisture, temperature based studies of composites, Ultrasonic C-Scan. Avionics Lab: Flight Simulator, Radar/ Lidar systems,aircraft instrumentations & control, navigation & guidance, UAVs, Software Safety and Security, Embedded system, Communication, Software Simulation, Sensors, Antenna Design. Advanced Powertrain Lab: Electric Vehicle, Hybrid Electric Vehicle, Regenerative Braking Test Rigs, Automotive Engines Lab: Compression Ignition test rig for emission and performance evaluation of different fuels, Fuel Injection Calibration setup, IC engines, Injector tester. Automotive Machine Shop: Cylinder bore Honing machine, Crankshaft Journal grinding, Valve seat lapping, Aerodynamics Lab: Subsonic wind tunnels, Six Component Balance, Flow visualization, Smoke meter. Propulsion Lab: Gas propulsion, Shock tube setup, Bomb calorimeter. Placement Details The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies spanning OEMs, Ancillary Suppliers and ITES. The core companies include- Mercedes Benz, Maruti Suzuki, Toyota Kirloskar Motors, Tata Motors, Honda two-wheelers India, Deloitte India, Bosch, Cummins India ltd. Department Newsletters Vol. 1 Vol. 2 Vol. 3 Follow us on Facebook Instagram LinkedIN Programs The Department of Aeronautical and Automobile Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Aeronautical Engineering B.Tech - Automobile Engineering M.Tech - Automobile Engineering M.Tech.-Avionics M.Tech.-Defence Technology Faculty Dr. Satish Shenoy B Professor and Head Dr. (Cdr) Anil Rana Professor Dr. Chandrakant R Kini Professor Dr.Dayananda K Pai Professor Laxmikant G Keni Assistant Professor- Senior Scale Dr. Mohammad Zuber Associate Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications The areas of research include Composite Materials, Tribology of Bearings, Nanocomposites, Biomechanics, Structural Membrane, Avionics and Propulsion. Currently, the department is working on research in the field of dental materials which are capable of withstanding high pressure and temperature and can last for a long time without decay. Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
