Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering Overview Started in the year 1972, the Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering((ECE) at MIT marks the golden jubilee year in 2021, fostering excellence in teaching graduate and post graduate courses. It offers a B.Tech degree course in Electronics and Communication Engineering and an M.Tech degree course in Digital Electronics and Communication besides in Microelectronics and Ph.D. Program. Department Vision and Mission: Vision "Excellence in Electronics and Communication Engineering education through innovation and teamwork." Mission To impart core engineering skills in electronics and communication engineering through effective teaching-learning practices, to Provide academic environment that promotes creative thinking, team work and research, and to enable the graduates to face societal challenges and provide holistic solutions. Department Areas of Expertise Signal and Image Processing: Department forsters the research in the specific domains including signal, speech and image processing also the interdisciplinary, medical image processing Analogue and Digital VLSI: Group of dedicated faculty work on funded projects on Analog and Digital VLSI domain MEMS and Nanotechnology: MEMS technology expert group concentrates on miniaturizing existing sensor, actuator, or system products. Nanotechnology uses the unique properties of ultra-small scale materials to an advantage Wireless and Fibre Optical Communication: The department is well equipped with research facilities that cater to the need of latest communication technology research Embedded System Design and Application: Department not just has expertise but facilities that work on the embedded system design and applications with emphasis on IoT Information Theory and Coding: Department with its expert faculty members provides excellent contribution in the field of Information Theory and coding especially in the field of data encryption Specialized Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs in the following areas of electronics and communication. Digital Systems Design Lab and Electronics Circuit Design Lab:Consists of hardware trainer kits, dual power supply, digital oscilloscope and digital multimeter. Computer lab:For designing and analyzing the analog electronic circuits, using software simulation tool called Multisim. Electronic Systems Lab:Consists of Labview software and MyDaq hardware tool by National Instruments for developing various projects based on analog circuits. Microprocessor Lab:Consists of ARM 7 and ARM cortex evaluation boards. Communication networking lab: Where the experiments are conducted using Qualnet simulator software, benchmark LAN trainer kit and C/C++ programming. VLSI lab:Consists Verilog HDL, Basys-3 and NESYS 4 DDR boards,Artix-7 FPGA. DSP lab: Equipped with MATLAB software, code composer studio simulator and OMAP-L138 DSP development hardware kit for applications of communication, speech and image processing. Communication Lab: Equipped with NI USRP 2901 SDR setup for antenna and next generation 5G wireless communication application PG lab:Equipped with 30 licensed state of the art Cadence software for digital, analog and mixed signal design and other software such as Xilinx Vivaldo, Keil(for microprocessor/microcontroller) Research lab:Equipped with HFSS (for antenna design),COMSOL 5.2a,RSoft OptSIM External Collaborations Teaching skills and teaching methodology training program for young faculty, in association with Department of Education Academic Alliance Programs with INTEL and EMC2 MEMs Design Centre (INUP) in association with Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore Student exchange programs with various institutions/universities abroad through IAESTE. More than ten students have got the benefit from this program Collaborative program with DBT, Philips and BoP Companies Collaboration in the areas of microcontrollers and digital signal processing with ATMEL, Novoton Technology Corp, Taiwan and Texas Instruments respectively. Placements The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES. Department has been successful in providing placement to more than 85% of students with Average CTC of 6.2 and highest CTC of 20.4 LPAMicrosoft, Intel, qualcomm; Sandisc; Samsung; Ericsson; Maruti Suzuki: L&T are some of the major industries in which students of ECE have been placed Programs The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Electronics and Communication Engineering: The undergraduatd engineering course equips students with the knowledge in the fields of Signal and Image Processing, Analogue and Digital VLSI, MEMS and Nanotechnology, Wireless and Fibre Optical Communication, Embedded System Design and Application, Information Theory and Coding. The 4 year course consists of in brief, 15 Core Subjects; 7 Program Electives; 2 Management Subjects; 8 Laboratory Courses; 4 Open Electives; Industrial Training, & Project Work.Students can choose from a bucket of minor specialization as a part of their program electives M.Tech - Digital Electronics and Communication:The department offers MTech in Digital Electronics and Communication Engineering. This career-focused course is much sought after by students for its excellent future prospects. The state of the art infrastructure at Manipal Academy of Higher Education enables students to work in labs equipped with cutting edge equipment in the areas of Analog Circuits, Digital Systems, Communications, Microprocessors, Computer Programming, MATLAB, Microwaves, PCB, DSP and Power Electronics. M.Tech - Microelectronics: MTech in Microelectronics, is a two-year program offered by Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal. Students are introduced to the concepts of physical electronics, DSP and its application, bio-sensors, hardware description, optimisation, computational electro-magnetics, VLSI technology, design, and design lab. The curriculum also covers the study of embedded system design, physics of transistors and advanced network analysis, among other subjects. To provide a better learning process, students are exposed to seminars, soft skills development, project work, research and development and lab assignments. Faculty Dr. G. Subramanya Nayak Professor & Head Dr. M Sathish Kumar Professor Dr. Somashekara Bhat Professor Dr. Kumara Shama Professor Dr. Mruthyunjaya H S Professor Dr. Datta Guru Vinayaka Kamath Professor Dr. Kanthi M Professor Dr. Pallavi R Mane Professor Dr. Anitha H Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-Newsletters Click the following link to view the half-yearly Department E-Newsletter: Bits and Bytes Vol 3 :Issue 2 - September 2021 Vol 3:Issue 1 - March 2021 Vol 2:Issue 2 - September 2020 Vol 2:Issue 1 - March 2020 Vol 1:Issue 2 - September 2019 Vol 1:Issue 1 - March 2019 Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
