Department of Mechatronics - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Mechatronics Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Mechatronics Overview The Department of Mechatronics at MIT Manipal offers a 4-year B. Tech course in Mechatronics since 2006 with an integrated curriculum to provide a broad-based education in the basic principles of electrical, electronics, computing, mechanical, robotics, and modern courses. The department also offers a 2-year M. Tech course in Industrial Automation and Robotics since 2015. VISION OF THE DEPARTMENT Excellence in Mechatronics Education through Innovation and Team Work MISSION OF THE DEPARTMENT Educate students professionally to face societal challenges by providing a healthy learning environment grounded well in the principles of Mechatronics engineering, promoting creativity, and nurturing teamwork. Department Areas of Expertise Mechatronics Systems: The department has expertise in wide range of mechatronics domain and possess some of the most exquisite labs with industrial grade equipment/ devices covering domains like Sensors, Electrical Drives, System design, embedded systems, Robotics, Industrial hydraulics and Pneumatics, Programmable Logic Controllers, Sensorics ,and Microcontrollers. Machine Learning and AI: The department has expertise in Artificial Intelligence (AI), Image processing, Data Science, Machine Learning and many areas of AI. Other areas include Machine Learning in Robotic applications, Optimization Algorithms and Reinforcement learning. Industry 4.0 led Manufacturing Systems: The department is developing expertise in current trends in manufacturing like 3D Printing, MEMS, Micromachining, Nanoscience and Digital Manufacturing, IIOT. Robotics: The departments has expertise and infrastructural support in robotics and its application areas. The course and lab modules covers domains like design & simulations of autonomous, aerial, flexible robots, path planning through Robotic Operating Systems(ROS), mechanics and their applications in various areas. Industrial Automation: The department offers a PG course on Industrial Automation and Robotics that covers many essential areas such as PLCs, Hydraulics and Pneumatics and Automated Manufacturing Processing systems, AI, ML, Image processing and many more. Database Management, Information Security, Industrial IoT & Cryptography: Department has expertise in the core areas of Databases, Computer Network, cyber security, cryptography, IIoT, and offers these as electives to UG higher semesters. Specialized Labs Drives, Controls and Modelling Lab: Modelling, Simulation and Real Time Control of Electric Drives using Power Electronics Modular Manufacturing Systems (MPS Lab): Modular Production Systems, Programming of various stations such as Distribution, Buffer, Processing, Handling and Separation stations using Festo PLC and Simatic Manager software Sensorics Lab: Calibration of switching distances, hysteresis, reduction factor & response Programmable Logic Controller Lab: Basic concepts of PLCs and their relevance, the PLC I/O structure and types, interfacing of hardware and software, PLC programming language with emphasis in ladder logic and Develop industry applications Industrial Pneumatics Lab: Basic Pneumatics, Electro Pneumatics, Closed Loop Pneumatics Industrial Hydraulics Lab: Basic Hydraulics, Electro Hydraulics, Proportional Hydraulics Microcontroller Lab: Fundamentals of Assembly Programming, Engineering Applications using Embedded C for ARM Cortex M4F e-Yantra - Embedded Systems and Robotics Lab: RTOS, Mobile Robots, Embedded System Design Robotic Lab: Industrial Robots, Collaborative Robots, Robot Operating System, Vision for Robotics. IIOT lab: Industrial Internet of Things, communication protocols and computer networks Placement Details The department is supported by the institute placement team. Steered by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and department coordinators, the placement team presides over the entire process starting from pre-placement talk, online test, group discussions, and personal interviews. Students have opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in Core job profiles and ITES job profiles. Some of the major recruiters for the department are TetraPak, Goldmann Sachs, ABB, TATA Motors, Robert Bosch, Hero Motors, Collins Aerospace, Impact Analytics, CISCO and KPMG. Click here link to know more about the Department of Mechatronics Programs The Department of Mechatronics, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Mechatronics:Mechatronics is a multi-disciplinary domain lying at the intersection of Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics, and Computer Science Engineering. objective of the department is to enable students with the potential to address the future challenges by laying a strong foundation of multidisciplinary knowledge in their intellect. The department is well-equipped with laboratories set up in collaboration with industries to enable the students integrate knowledge from various engineering disciplines and get used to various industrial cases through. The department emphasizes on the industry academic partnership which benefits students to work in professional sphere during graduation, provides graduates with the research background necessary for an academic career, provides insights to nurture the entrepreneurship ambitions, opportunities for industrial experience, and experiential learning. M.Tech- Industrial Automation and RoboticsObjective of the program is to Transform B.Tech graduates (Mechanical and Electrical streams) into Automation and Robotics Processional capable of addressing the automation challenges for effective and economic operation of manufacturing systems, development of automated systems involving robots, and develop automation strategies in compliant with industry 4.0. The curriculum is designed to train students in areas like factory automation, Digital Manufacturing, Robotics, Embedded Systems, image processing, artificial intelligence, sensorics, and machine learning with ample hands on training and enables them to learn by reasoning and research. Faculty Dr. Chandrashekhar Bhat Professor and HOD Dr. Vijay Babu Koreboina Assistant Professor Dr. Asha C S Assistant Professor (Senior Scale) Dr. SHWETA VINCENT Assistant Professor- Senior scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities News Letters Click the following link to view the bi-annually Department E-Newsletter MECHATRON: Vol 1 Issue 1 July 2018 Click Here Vol 1 Issue 2 Jan 2019 Click Here Vol 2 Issue 1 July 2019 Click Here Vol 2 Issue 2 Jan 2020 Click Here Vol 3 Issue 1 July 2020 Click Here Vol 4 Issue 1 July 2021 Click Here Research & Publications The areas of research are Industrial Automation Industrial Robotics Design of Mechatronics Systems Computer Integrated Manufacturing Structural Integrity Evaluation Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
