Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering Overview The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering (MME) was established in the year 1960. It is the largest Department in the Institute, comprising two undergraduate and four postgraduate programs. Over the years, the Department has developed to become a centre of excellence, providing in-depth technical knowledge and opportunities for innovation and research. Innovative teaching methods, Industrial collaborations, state-of-the-art infrastructural facilities are the strength of MME. The Department has a strong research interest in diverse areas of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and offers a PhD Program. The focussed research areas of the Department are Materials, Design, Thermal, Manufacturing and Industrial & Systems Engineering. Moreover, the Department is recognized as Quality Improvement Program (QIP) minor Centre by MHRD, Govt of India, which has boosted the Department's research activities. Department Vision and Mission Vision "Excellence in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering education through innovative practices and teamwork." Mission Educate students professionally to face societal challenges by providing a healthy learning environment grounded well in the principles of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, promoting creativity and nurturing teamwork. Department Areas of Expertise Materials Engineering:Materials science, also known as Materials Science and Engineering, is a multidisciplinary field that deals with discovering and designing new materials. We at the department have a research group specialising in Heat Treatment of Metals and Composites, Machinability and Deformation Behaviour of Metals and Composites, Material Characterization, Hygrothermal Aging and Degradation Behavior of Composites, Drilling of Composites etc. Design Engineering:Design engineering plays a key role in successfully developing any product or system in real-life applications.The department supports the faculty, scholars and students with well-equipped hardware and computerized laboratories to constantly engage in design-related research activities for addressing the problems in engineering and non-engineering domains. The key research areas of the faculty in the design engineering domain are Fluid Film Bearings, Ocular Tribology, Tribology of Polymers, Fluid-Structure Interaction, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Finite Element Methods, Vibration, Viscoelasticity, Magnetorheological Materials, Experimental Modal Analysis, Passive Magnetic Bearings, Rotor Dynamics, Bearing Diagnostics, Vibration Signal Processing and Analysis, Application of Soft Computing Techniques to Engineering, Design for Manufacturing, Fatigue & Fracture of Materials. Thermal Engineering:Thermal engineering is at the forefront of today's space, defence, marine, power plants, and renewable energy research, offering a challenging and exciting professional career. The department houses a research team specialized in Solar Energy Conversion, Heat Exchanger Design, Turbomachinery, Biofuels, Microfluidics and Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), which are among the key areas of academic and industrial research. We also have a well-equipped Computational Laboratory for conducting simulation-related research activities and a thermal laboratory to undertake experimental research projects. Manufacturing Engineering:Manufacturing Engineering is closely associated with Mechanical Engineering, making it one of its core streams. The department has a state-of-the-art Workshop with a balanced blend of conventional, non-conventional and advanced machines, including CNC machines and 3D Printers. The department has an experienced team of faculty members and support staff with ample industrial experience mentoring students and researchers in mastering the intricacies of Manufacturing Technology, thereby supporting the Government's policies like Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Industrial & Systems Engineering:Industrial and Systems Engineering is responsible for improving the efficiency of products and processes irrespective of the manufacturing and service sector domain. The Department has a well-equipped computerized laboratory facility for researching Industrial & Systems Engineering. The group researches Operations Research, Operations Management, Work Systems Engineering, Ergonomics, Supply & Logistics Management, Quality Engineering and Simulation & Modelling Analysis. External Collaborations The Department has MoUs with Maini Group, Everest Blowers, Rimtex Engineering Private Limited and Signet. Specialised Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs in the following areas of Materials, Design, Thermal, Manufacturing & Industrial Engineering. Computer Aided Design Lab: Computer Aided Drafting, Computer Aided Modelling, Computer Aided Analysis Mechanical Workshop: Lathe Operations, Shaper Machine Operations, Milling Operations, CNC Machining, Electro Discharge Machining Engine Lab: Fuel Properties, Engine Performance, Compressor & Blower Performance, Refrigeration Performance and Air Condition Performance. Heat Transfer Lab: Conduction, Convection, Radiation and Heat & Mass Transfer Concept Computer Aided Industrial Engineering Lab:Operations Research Problem Solving, Operations Management Problem Solving, Simulation and Modelling Analysis. Advance Material Testing Lab:Material Engineering Properties, Optical Inspection of Materials, Friction and Wear study, Standard Specimen Preparation, Casting, Heat Treatment. Metrology and Measurements Lab:Calibration of Measuring Instruments. Measurement Of Thread Profile, Gear Profile and Linear Dimensions. Surface Irregularity Measurement, Straightness Measurement, Angle Measurements, Radius Measurement. Work System and Ergonomics Lab:Method Study, Time Study, Micromotion study, Human Factor in Engineering Design. Quality Engineering Lab:Statistical Process Control, Process and Product Optimisation using Experimental Design Techniques. Tribology & Vibration Lab:Lubricant Properties, Coating Properties, Bearing Performance, Vibration Characteristics Thermal Lab: Heat Exchanger Analysis, Heat Augmentation Techniques. Renewable Energy Center: Solar-Thermal Systems, Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Systems, Natural Circulation Systems, Thermal Energy Storage (TES) System, Wind Energy Conversion Devices PG Lab Research Lab Placement Details The department is well supported by the institute placement team. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES. Our students from Mechanical and Industrial & Production Engineering get recruited by a wide range of companies like Adani Power, Baxter, Bosch, Daimler India, Delloitte DI Tech & PLM, Dyson Technology, Fiat India, Forbes Marshall, Goldman Sachs, Hero Motocorp, Indian Oil, JSW Steels, KPMG, L&T, Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra & Mahindra, Medcords, MRF Ltd., Quest Global, Tata Motors,Schneider Electric, Volvo, Textron, 3D Usher, Accenture, Infosys, Wipro, Amazon, Flipkart, Capgemini, Cognizant, Honeywell, Saint Gobain, Reliance,The Math Company and ZS Associates to name a few. Engineering property testing of materials, Optical Inspection of materials, Friction and Wear study, Standard specimen preparation, Casting, Heat Treatment. Programs The Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: BTech - Mechanical Engineering: BTech Mechanical Engineering (ME) is a four-year undergraduate engineering degree course offered by the Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering. This course aims to prepare students to apply the laws and principles of science and mathematics to analyse, maintain and design and manufacture mechanical systems. The program offers subjects such as Kinematics & Dynamics of Machinery, Thermodynamics, Material Science and Metallurgy, Mechanical Design, Computer-Aided Design & Manufacturing, Fluid Mechanics & Machineries, Finite Element Method, Heat Transfer etc. along with a great choice of program electives to strengthen the Mechanical Engineering Knowledge of the students. The labs with high-end software and advanced machinery keep students in sync with technological advances and prepare them for lifelong learning. BTech - Industrial and Production Engineering:BTech Industrial and Production Engineering (IPE) is a four-year undergraduate engineering degree course offered by the Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering. The course is a perfect blend of two majors Industrial Engineering or Systems Engineering and Production, also known as Manufacturing Engineering. The program structure offers subjects such as Facility Planning & Design, Work System Engineering, Operations Research, Operations Management, Simulation and Modelling Analysis, Quality Engineering, Manufacturing Process and Metrology & Measurements. Both traditional and computed aided laboratories well support the theory courses of the program. MTech - Computer-Aided Analysis and Design:MTech in Computer-Aided Analysis and Design (CAAD) is a two-year postgraduate specialisation degree course offered by the Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering.The PG program focuses on strengthening the theoretical and practical knowledge of the students in the core areas of design and analysis so as to meet the needs of the industries as well as R&D organizations. The core objectives of the programme are to (a) Impart core concepts of Mechanical design to solve complex problems of society and industry, considering the ethical, legal and environmental issues (b) Provide comprehensive theoretical and hands-on experience in computer-based modelling, analysis and design of mechanical components and systems with a multi-disciplinary approach and (c) Promote a culture of research and publish research articles/technical reports associated with computer aided analysis and design of mechanical components and systems applied to multi-disciplinary domains. MTech - Manufacturing Engineering:MTech in Manufacturing Engineering (MFG) is a two-year postgraduate specialisation degree course offered by the Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering. The PG program focuses on the requirements of the manufacturing industry broadly covering the major areas of manufacturing, production automation, production planning and control, product design, materials, machining processes and quality control. The curriculum has been framed drawing course contents from traditional fields such as materials and processes, manufacturing engineering, industrial engineering, up to the advanced fields such as CNC machining, metal forming, production automation systems, product design and manufacturing etc. The course also trains the students to develop skills in the utilization of modern tools such as simulation, optimization, and statistical data analysis. Overall, the course planned here is committed to imparting lifelong learning, gaining leadership, improving managerial and team spirit skills to work effectively in various types of manufacturing industries. MTech - Thermal Sciences and Energy Systems:MTech in Thermal Sciences and Energy Systems (TSES) is a two-year postgraduate specialisation degree course offered by the Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering. The PG program aims at providing sufficient theoretical knowledge in the thermal and fluid sciences combined with simulation and experimental skills applied to renewable energy systems, heat exchangers, and fluid dynamics research. The program aims to equip students to showcase their expertise in advanced research fields like computation fluid dynamics, refrigeration and cryogenics, solar thermal systems, design and analysis of thermal systems, and numerical methods. Additionally, to get acquainted with the operation of various thermal systems and usage of high-end instruments, thermal and renewable energy laboratory courses are part of the program, which majorly covers stability analysis, hybrid system analysis as well as energy and exergy analyses. Even the desired ethics in the profession is taught in research methodology, while the scope to opt for multidisciplinary courses widespread the research. MTech -Tribology and Maintenance:MTech in Tribology and Maintenance is a two-year postgraduate specialisation degree course offered by the Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering.Tribology and Maintenance is the science and technology of interacting surfaces in relative motion. With the developments in science and technology, it is important to understand the interaction of the surface with its environment in order to control and maintain the performance during its operational lifetime.The PG program aims atproviding an academically challenging and in-depth exposure to recent developments and traditional concepts of lubrication, friction and wear. Faculty Sathyashankara Sharma Professor and Head Raghuvir Pai B. Professor Dr.Raviraja Professor Nanjangud Subbarao Mohan Professor D Srikanth Rao Professor P. Krishnananda Rao Professor K. Vasudeva Karanth Professor U. Achutha Kini Professor VIEW ALL E-Newsletter The department of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering publishes Bi-annual E-Newsletter News Links, highlighting the departmental news, faculty and students achievements, recognition and awards, student club activities, and Alumni interactions. Click the following links to view the E-Newsletter Vol 1 : Issue 1 : Jan 2019 Vol 1 : Issue 2 : Aug 2019 Vol 2 : Issue 1 : Jan 2020 Vol 2 : Issue 2 : Aug2020 Vol 3 : Issue 1 :Mar 2021 Vol 3 : Issue 2 :Sep 2021 Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research The areas of research are Tribology Computational Fluid Dynamics Characterisation of Metals, Alloys and Composite materials Machining of Metals, Alloys and Composite materials Heat Treatment of Metals Thermal Sciences Renewable Energy Harvesting Corrosion Engineering Biomechanics Non-Traditional Machining Industrial Engineering Supply Chain Microfluidics Electro kinetics Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
