Department of Humanities & Management - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Humanities & Management Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Humanities and Management Overview Department of Humanities and Management Overview The Department of Humanities & Management, at Manipal Institute of Technology was established in May 2009. The department has two disciplines: Management and English. The department offers a Post Graduate Program (M.Tech) in Engineering Management and also provides support to all other departments of the college for Management and English Subjects. The department has expertise in system dynamics, modelling and simulation, organizational behaviour, econometrics and marketing, research methodology, Linguistics, English literature and communication, German language and cultural studies. The Department plays a distinctive role in moulding the careers of engineers, as the spirit of scientific inquiry and application of technology need to be coupled with human values. Department Vision and Mission: Vision Excellence in Engineering Management education through Innovation & Teamwork Mission To educate the students in the fields of engineering management and humanities through holistic teaching-learning processes To prepare the students to face the societal challenges and meet the needs of the stakeholders. Department Areas of Expertise Innovation Management Knowledge Management and Technology Management Sustainable Waste Management Specialized Labs MODELING & SIMULATION AND LANGUAGE LAB This lab caters to both UG, PG and PhD students of MIT. The lab facilities can be classified into two categories English Language Development and Data Analysis, Modeling & Simulation. The English language lab, through the specialized software available, enables UG students to develop their reading, writing, listening and speaking skills in the English language. Additionally, the lab also has software for data analysis, modeling & simulation helping UG, PG and Ph.D. students to conduct various data analyses related to their academics, research, and project work. The following software are available in the lab: Study Skill Success Vensim DSS IBM SPSS AMOS 22.0 IBM SPSS Statistics -25.0 SmartPLS V3.0 QDA Miner Tally ERP 9 Gold Placement Details The department in coordination with the institute placement cell provides assistance in internships and final placements. Our students have been placed in leading domestic and leading MNC's. Cerner Corporation, Continental Group and many other companies regularly visit our campus for internship recruitment and final placement. Programs M.Tech. - Engineering Management:M.Tech. in Engineering Management is one of the most preferred courses by students passed out from different streams of engineering. The course offers a perfect blend of advanced engineering concepts with management theories. Students get hands-on training with the help of state-of-the-art Data Analysis Lab, Simulation and Modelling Lab, Resource Planning and Finance Lab to name a few. Students are exposed to the practices of the industry and are trained to become future managers. Faculty Dr. Gopalakrishna B Professor and Head Dr. Lewlyn Lester Raj Rodrigus Professor Dr. Alapati Vittaleswar Professor Dr. Veena Maben Professor Dr. Srinivasa Rao Potti Associate Professor - Senior Scale Dr. Tungesh G M Associate Professor Senior Scale Dr. Sriram K V Associate Professor Dr. Dasharathraj K Shetty Associate Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
