Department of Chemistry - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Chemistry Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Chemistry Overview The Department of Chemistry started functioning since the inception of MIT in the year 1957 as a supporting department for all B.Tech. program. Department offers Engineering Chemistry course for first-year and program / open electives for higher semesters. Since 2009, the department is offering the post-graduate program, M.Sc. (Chemistry) with the main focus on Organic Chemistry. From 2021 admissions, the department is offering an M.Sc. program in two specializations (Organic Chemistry and Applied Chemistry). The department is also offering a Ph.D. program in emerging areas of research. The department has a good infrastructure and enthusiastic, competent, and well-qualified faculty. Department Vision and Mission: Vision Our vision is to become a multidimensional Centre for research and innovation in Chemistry. The staff enhances the quality of life through long-term value creation via R & D, teamwork, and industry interaction. Mission Our mission is to impart quality chemistry education and training to the students. The faculty of the department provide a substantial chemistry background to complement the quality training imparted to the students in various disciplines at the institute. Key Features Provides a substantial Chemistry background to supplement other disciplines at the institute and other constituent colleges Exposure to state-of-the-art instrumentation techniques and quality outcome-based research Extramural research grants Placement opportunities in MNCs, allied sectors, and academic/research institutions Strong institution-industry interactions. Department Areas of Expertise Organic synthesis: Synthesis and characterization of heterocyclic molecules for diverse applications Polymer and composite materials: Synthesis and characterization of antimicrobial polymers and their applications. Preparation of fiber-reinforced composites Corrosion inhibitors: Green inhibitors for corrosion control of different metals, alloys, and composites Electrochemical sensors: Developing Pc-based supramolecular system for sensing applications Electroplating: Synthesis and characterization of alloy-based coatings for corrosion protection and electro-catalytic applications Medicinal Chemistry: Synthesis of pharmacologically important heterocyclic compounds Nanomaterials: Fabrication of polymeric, metal, and metal oxide nanomaterials for various applications Energy storage materials: Synthesis and characterization of energy storage materials for the fabrication of supercapacitor, solar cells, and batteries Thermoelectric materials: Developing new materials for thermoelectric generator applications Liquid Crystals: Design and develop new liquid crystals for various technical applications Fluorescent materials: Developing new fluorescent materials for security ink, OLED, and sensing applications Drug delivery: in vivo and in vitro studies of potential drug candidates External Collaboration: The department has tie-up with Syngene, SABIC, PPISR, CeNS. Specialized Labs Synthesis lab: Microwave synthesizer, parallel synthesizer Instrumentation lab: Electrochemical workstation, Schrodinger workstation, UV- Visible and FTIR spectrometers, DSC, TGA, Flash chromatography, POM. Placement Details: The Chemistry department is well supported by the Institute placementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Some of the recruiters are Ultratech cement, Biocon, Merck, Sigma-Aldrich, Sequent, Lupin, MRPL, MRF, Syngene, ITC, Antham Biosciences, Shell, Shravathi Advanced Private Limited, Primus Gloves Pvt limited. M.Sc Chemistry students got opportunities for higher studies (like Ph.D.) in different universities in abroad and India. Eotvos Lorand University, Budapest, Hungary Tianjin University, China Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology (KRICT), South Korea Thammasat University, Thailand University of Manchester, UK Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India Raman Research Institute, Bangalore, India NITK Surathkal, India BITS Goa and Hyderabad, India Jain University, Bangalore, India Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India Our research students are awarded the prestigious DST-Inspire Fellowship, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. Many of our alumni have cleared competitive exams like UGC-CSIR NET, GATE, KSET and also working in the teaching profession in different organizations/ institutions. Programs The Department of Chemistry, MIT offers the following programs: M.Sc- Chemistry Link for Outcomes Based Education (OBE) M.Sc. (Chemistry) Program Ph.D Faculty Dr.Prakasha Shetty Professor and HOD Dr. Yashoda M P Professor Dr.Suma A Rao Professor Dr.Fasiulla Associate Professor Dr.Subrahmanya Bhat K Associate Professor- senior scale Dr.Srinivasulu M Associate Professor - Senior Scale Dr.Dhanya Sunil Associate Professor- Senior Scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications The areas of research are liquid crystals, corrosion studies, polymer chemistry, bio organic & medicinal chemistry, composite materials, organic syntheses, organo-metallic chemistry and polymer electrolytes. Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
