AICTE TRAINING AND LEARNING (ATAL) ACADEMY SPONSORED FDP ON RECENT ADVANCEMENTS IN SUSTAINABLE ENERGY STORAGE AND CONVERSION 25th 29 th Oct 2021 Organized by Department of Chemical Engineering, MIT, Manipal 576104 Department of Chemical Engineering - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Chemical Engineering Overview The Department of Chemical Engineering started in 1969 with BTech program in Chemical Engineering. Our department offers MTech since 2009 and Ph.D program in Chemical Engineering since 2000. The BTech program builds on the core elements of heat, mass and momentum transfer, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, transport processes, control process, with a hands on experience in state of the art laboratories. Various electives and minor specialization in petroleum engineering and pollution control engineering, prepare students for industries or higher studies. The MTech course emphasis on the advanced courses with main focus on research project. This provides an excellent platform to prepare the next generation research scholars. The Ph.D program indeed offers inter and multidisciplinary research to address socio-economic and industrial problems. Our high student-faculty ratio facilities high quality teaching, project and research guidance to students with great care. We are very proud to announce that, on 2019 we had celebrated our Golden Jubilee year of establishment of Chemical Engineering Department. Here is the link to the souvenir : Golden Jubilee Souvenir Vision To be the department that fosters excellence in education, research and innovation in Chemical Engineering and emerging inter disciplinary fields. Mission To provide quality education that prepares the graduates for leading roles in their chosen career and life-long learning. To develop technology through excellence in research, in conjunction with the technical education that is recognized by the peers in profession in the emerging fields of Chemical, Biochemical, Energy, Environmental engineering, and Material Science. To achieve technical excellence through industry-institute interactions. To produce graduates who are able to perform in multi-disciplinary teams and demonstrate superior team leadership. KEY FEATURES One of the oldest departments in Manipal Institute of Technology, imparting quality education for over 50 years. Fully functional computer lab with core software like Aspen, Matlab, AutoCAD, etc. Basic undergraduate laboratories as well as research oriented laboratories Chemignite a national level symposium is conducted every year by the student chapter of Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers Department Areas of Expertise Process Modeling and Simulation Fluid and Fluid-Solid Operations Drug Delivery Systems Catalysis and Nanotechnology Environmental Pollution Control Computational Fluid Dynamics Process Control Renewable Energy Advanced Materials Placement Details The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES. Studnets got placed in companies like Deloitte,Goldman Sachs,Lead Squared, TCS, CapeGemini, Cognizant, Infosys, Verzeo, Unschool,BASF, The Math Company,Leverage Education,My Captain and many more. Students went for higher students in world class univerties likeImperial College London,Cornel university,University of California,Georgia Institute of Technology,Adelaide University,KTH Royal Institute of Technology,Carnegie Mellon University,Vrije Universiteit Brussel,Northeastern University,Columbia university,Texas A&M University,Wageningen University and Research,University of Maryland and many more. Programs The Department of Chemical Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech-Chemical Engineering:The Bachelor of Technology in Chemical Engineering program is designed to impart both theoretical and experimental knowledge. The B.Tech in Chemical Engineering started on 1969. Since 2016 the undergraduate course is accredited byNational Board of Accreditation (NBA). The syllabus of the four year curriculum isB.Tech - Chemical Engineering M.Tech-Chemical Engineering:The Master of Technology in Chemical Engineering program is designed to impart both theoretical and experimental knowledge. The B.Tech in Chemical Engineering started on 2010.The syllabus of the four year curriculum isM.Tech - Chemical Engineering Faculty Dr.Harish Kumar S Professor Dr.S V S R Krishna Bandaru Professor Dr.Srinivas Kini Professor Dr. Balakrishna Prabhu K Professor and Head of the Department Dr.Harshini Dasari Associate Professor Mr. Sriprasad Acharya Assistant Professor - Senior Scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-News Letter We also take immense pleasure in sharing the inaugural July 2021 issue of the semiannual newsletter of the Chemical Engg Department. It is a collection of all the activities and exciting happenings in the department. This is the link to the E-newsletter:Tempus July 2021 For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering X Ph.D. Admissions in Department of Chemical Engineering at Manipal Institute of Technology, MAHE, Manipal. Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT, MAHE) invites applications for admission to its Ph.D. (admissions in July & December) programmes from aspirants with motivation towards research. The Department of Chemical Engineering was established in 1969 and has distinguished alumni in industry, research & development centres, academia, and entrepreneurship across the world. Dr. T.M.A. Pai research fellowship is offered to selected Ph.D. research scholars. The tantative timetable as follows: PhD Applications Open Nov 17 Dec 31, 2021 PhD MET Mock Test Jan 4 5, 2022 PhD MET Jan 8 9, 2022 Declaration of PhD MET Shortlist for Interviews Jan 13, 2022 PhD Interviews Feb 1 10, 2022 Declaration of PhD Interview Results Feb 12, 2022 For Detail advertisement Clickhere. Ph.D. Application Website: https://mahephd.azurewebsites.net/ About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
