Department of Mathematics MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Mathematics Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Mathematics Overview The Department of Mathematics at Manipal Institute of Technology was started in 1957 and provides the students with the mathematical foundation required to analyse all engineering and applied science courses. Apart from this, it also provides the mathematical methods to formulate, analyse and to solve the problems of engineering and management through the higher level and elective courses. The faculty members help students in acquiring a conceptual understanding of the nature and structure of mathematics, its processes, and applications. The department caters to undergraduate courses through regular and elective subjects, PG courses like M.Tech, MCA, as well as pure and applied mathematics in the other consistent institutions of Manipal Academy of Higher Education. Core competencies Numerical Analysis Fluid Dynamics Graph Theory Complex Analysis Algebra Functional Analysis Topology Statistical Inferences Reliability Theory. Programs The Department of Mathematics, MIT offers the following programs: M.Sc. - Applied Mathematics and Computing Faculty Dr. Sudhakara G Professor and Head of Department Dr. Nityananda P Pai Professor Dr. Ramesha C Professor Dr. Pradeep Bhat Professor Dr. Nagaraj N Katagi Professor Dr. Syam prasad Kuncham Professor Dr. Ravi Shankar Bhat S Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications The areas of research of the department are Graph Theory, Number Theory, Complex Analysis, Algebra, Functional Analysis, Numerical Analysis, Fluid Mechanics, Computational Methods Topology, Special Functions, Statistical Inferences and Reliability Theory. Academic View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
