Department of Biotechnology - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Biotechnology Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Biotechnology OVERVIEW The Department of Biotechnology was established in 2005 to impart quality education in the field of biotechnology. Department Vision and Mission: Vision Excellence in teaching-learning process and research. Mission To impart and disseminate knowledge, develop competencies and to produce industry-ready and academically enriched engineers for the emerging areas of applied biotechnology. Department Areas of Expertise Bioinformatics Bio-nanotechnology Biopolymers Bioreactor Design Biofuels and Environmental biotechnology Drug Delivery Fermentation Engineering Microfluidics Modelling & Simulation of Bioprocess Photo-bioremediation Phytochemicals Plant & Animal Cell Culture Specialized Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs in the following areas of biotechnology. Biochemistry Lab Microbiology Lab Cell and Molecular Biology Lab Bioreaction & Downstream Processing Lab Bioinformatics Lab Process Modeling & Simulation Lab Animal Cell Culture & Plant Biotechnology Lab Bioprocess Engineering Lab Placement Details The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES. Our students are regularly placed in core companies such as Nicolas Pirimal Ltd., Philips Health Care, Biocon, Syngene, Dr. Reddys, GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt Ltd, Molecular Connections Pvt Ltd, Wipro Wellness Care, Solara Active Pharma, Elexes Medical and Hyde Engineering. Other companies such as IBM, TCS, Accenture, Infosys, Wipro, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, UST Global, Tolaram Group, Gen Works, The Math Company, Think & Learn visit for campus placements regularly. Our students are getting selected regularly to pursue their research internships in renowned institutions such as IITs, DRDO, CCMB and CFTRI. Our graduates were admitted in the recent past to top-ranked institutions for both MS and PhD programmes in Johns Hopkins University (US), Georgia Institute of Technology (US), Ohio University (US), University of Glasgow (UK), Delft University of Technology (Netherlands), University of Copenhagen (Denmark) and Tampere University (Finland). Programs The Department of Biotechnology, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Biotechnology:Bachelor of Technology in Biotechnology offers a blended curriculum with multiple areas of science, technology and engineering focusing on research. The program provides a pragmatic approach for an enriched learning experience with a research focus. M.Tech - Industrial Biotechnology:M. Tech in IBT offered by the Biotechnology Department provides a platform to mold the graduate students with all the technical skills needed for employment in the diverse areas of biotechnology, especially industry and research based careers. The curricula of the programs provide an equal weightage to the core principles of biological sciences, computational analysis and process engineering principles applied to biotechnology. Faculty Dr. Ramananda Bhat M Professor & HOD Dr. Ramachandra Murthy V Professor Dr. Bharath Raja Guru Professor Dr. Balaji S Associate Professor - Senior VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-News Letter Click the following link to view the annual Department E-Newsletter"Bio-TransMiT" : Volume-3 2021 Volume-2 2020 Volume-1 2019 Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
