Department of Physics - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Physics Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Physics Overview Department of Physics is one of the founder departments of the Institute. Currently, the department has grown and developed into a centre of PG studies and research. Faculty are specialized in various fields such as experimental and theoretical Physics. The department offers M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs in Physics. The total external funds received by the Department for various research projects is over Rs 60 million. The department offers open elective subjects to B.Tech. and M.Tech. students apart from teaching Engineering Physics. Department Vision To provide state-of-the-art infrastructure to the Centre for Excellence in Physics Education with a blend of basic as well as applied research. Department Areas of Expertise Condensed Matter Physics Material Science Radiation and Nuclear Physics Nanomaterials Thin film-based devices Solar cells Spectroscopy Non-linear Optics High Energy Physics Specialized Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs. Physics research laboratories are equipped with the following instruments. Profilometer - Bruker Dektak XT, UV/Vis/NIR Spectrophotometer Crystal Puller, Crystal Dilatometer, Solution crystal growth apparatus Spectrofluorometer, Refractometer Z-scan System, Vibration isolated Optical Table, Energy/ Power meter with detector, Continuous Wave (CW) Laser Thermal Diffusivity measurement system, Seebeck Coefficient measurement system, Low-temperature resistivity measurement system, Hall Effect system Dual CVD system DC Magnetron Sputtering The thermal co-evaporation system, spray pyrolysis unit, Keithley 2450 Source meter Spray pyrolysis unit Photodetector Analysis Setup, SILAR Controller Thermal evaporation unit, vacuum annealing unit Magnetron sputtering Placement Details Physics department is well supported by the Institute placementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Institute has established tie-ups with INFOSYS Ltd, TCS Ltd, for placements. Other public sector companies requested for campus hiring are EMBIBE, Pigeon Education Technology, and Aakash Institute. Our M.Sc. (Physics) students have joined the following universities in India and overseas for the Ph.D. program. Australian National University [Anu], Australia KU Leuven University, Belgium IIT Indore Clemson University, USA University of Cologne, Germany Mangalore University JINR(Joint Institute for nuclear research) Dubna, Moscow Region, Russia Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru Adam Mickiewicz University, Poland Center for Nano Science and Technology) Milon, Italy National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan NIT Surathkal, Karnataka Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, India Programs The Department of Physics, MIT offers the following program: M.Sc. - Physics Link forOutcomes Based Education (OBE) M.Sc. (Physics) Program Faculty Dr. Ashok Rao Professor Dr. Akhilesh Ranjan Assistant Professor - Selection Grade Dr. Rajendra B V Associate Professor-Senior Scale Dr.Gowrish K Rao Assistant Professor - Selection Grade Dr.Gurumurthy S C Assistant Professor - Selection Grade Dr. Mahesha M G Assistant Professor - Selection Grade VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research The areas of research are Condensed Matter Physics, Radiation and Nuclear Physics, Nano-materials, Thin film based devices, Solar cells, Spectroscopy, Non-linear optics and Atmospheric Physics and High Energy Physics Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
