Department of Information & Communication Technology MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Information & Communication Technology Overview The Department of Information and Communication Technology was established in the year 2000. Over the years, the department has developed into a centre for excellence, providing opportunities for innovation and research, with well-equipped computer laboratories and dedicated faculty. The department takes great pride in preparing the students for the industrial demands of software and hardware sectors. Students are also trained in software development tools.The department offers B.Tech. (Information Technology, Computer and Communication Engineering), M.Tech. (Software Engineering, Computer Networking & Engineering) and PhD programs. Department Vision and Mission: Vision "Excellence in Information and Communication Technology education through continuous learning and teamwork" Mission "To provide expertise in planning, designing, implementing and deploying IT infrastructure, to realize information systems aiming at providing solutions to societal requirements, and to promote quality education and research." Deparment area of Expertise Data Mining and Data Analytics:The data mining and data analytics group of the department is specialized in big data analytics, pattern recognition, machine learning and are conducting research which are applied in the healthcare, aquaculture, e-learning, and other domain. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning:The department fosters research on neural networks, machine learning, deep learning, algorithmic game theory, and explainable AI (XAI). Information and Web Security:The department focuses research in the core areas of Computer Network & Security which includes intrusion detection, cyber security, cryptography, blockchain technology, web security, and other related areas. Computer Vision and industrial Applications of IoT Systems:The department has expertise in computer vision which includes segmentation, object detection and recognition, object tracking, video, and image analysis. The research group focuses on applying AI, ML and Deep Learning models for solving the real-world complex problems in computer vision and medical image processing Cloud Computing:The department is well-equipped with high end devices for prototype development and application development. Also, the group carries out research in application development as a service and infratructure management. Computer Network and Wireless Communication Sensor Network:The computer network group in the department carries out research in the next generation networks related to Energy-constrained wireless networks, blockchain technology, fog computing, mobile ad-hoc networks, software-defined networks, spectrum management in cognitive radio networks External Collaborations MOU with ISEP Paris, France MOU with IBM, DSCI, Schneider Electricals, Cisco, Samsung, Nokia and Mscript MOU with Github and Quantum Learning Specialized Labs The department provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs in the following areas: Database Management Systems Lab:Information Retrieval, Database applications: back-end and front-end Computer Networks Lab:Network Programming, Network Security, Web Mining, and Network Protocol Design Advanced Programming Lab:Prototype Development, Web Programming, General Purpose Programming, and Deep Learning Project Lab:Project Management, Budgeting and documentation, Project Quality Management, and Version Control Systems Software Engineering Lab:Software Oriented Architecture, Object-Oriented Software Design with UML, Software Risk Management and Software Maintenance Wireless Network Lab: Socket programming, simulations using packet tracer and NS3, and IoT applications using sensors and ARM processors. Research and Development Lab: High-end infrastructure facilities with suitable resources available for research students Data Analytics Lab:BigData Analysis, Pattern Recognition, and Machine Learning Hardware Design Lab:Digital Circuit Design, Circuit Simulation, Embedded Systems and Device Interfacing Placement Details The department is well supported by the instituteplacementteam. The placement team is headed by Associate Director (Industrial Liaison, Placement & Practice School) and oversees the entire placement process in the institution with the help of department coordinators. Students are provided with opportunities for Internships, Placements, Pre-placement offers (PPO) in core companies and ITES. Some of the major recruiters with a CTC of 10+ Lakhs for the department are Citrix R&D, Cloudera, Cohesity, DBOI Global Services, Goldman Sachs,Komprise India, Microsoft PPO, SAP Labs, VM Ware, Western Digital, and so on. There are 90+ companies providing internship/placement/preplacement offers to our students. Programs The Department of Information and Communication Technology, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Information Technology:B.Tech. in Information Technology (IT) meets the computational needs of business with an emphasis on technology. The exponential growth of user expectations and the increasing workload has created immense requirements for the professionals in the field of Information Technology. The course focuses on complete software development life cycle, database system, knowledge discovery with judicious blend of technical skills. B.Tech - Computer and Communication Engineering: B.Tech. in Computer and Communication Engineering(CCE) gives expertise in Computer Science (Software Development) focusing on mobile communication and computing. It covers subjects in computer science, communication networks, cloud computing and big data analytics. The program also includes the latest tools and technologies with certification for real life application development. M.Tech - Software Engineering:M.Tech. in Software Engineering is a 2-year program, aimed at producing high quality engineers/ researchers for the fast growing field of telecommunications. Students work with cutting edge technologies in computer communication and get hands on experience in latest areas such as network management, network design, data analytics, artificial intelligence. M.Tech - Computer Networking and Engineering:M.Tech. in Computer Networking & Engineeringis a 2-year program. Students enrolled in this course gain professional expertise in implementation services. This program covers the following topics: hardware sizing and configuration, technical systems review and assessment, system architecture and network design, software installation and upgrades, data ETL optimisation to improve performance and scalability, on-site and remote technical support, as well as disaster recovery planning. Faculty Dr. Smitha N Pai Professor & Head Dr. Manohara M M Pai Professor Dr. Radhika M Pai Professor Dr. Balachandra Professor Dr. Preetham Kumar Professor Dr. Manjula Shenoy K Professor Dr. Sanjay Singh Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-News Letter Click the following link to view the yearly newsletter ICT Chronicle 'ICT chronicle 2021' 'ICT chronicle 2020' 'ICT chronicle 2019' Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
