Research Centers | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Research Centers HomeFaculty and InsightsResearch Centers Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Faculty and Insights Research Centers Driving research and innovation at Boothand beyond. From entrepreneurship to marketing, social impact to artificial intelligence, the research centers at Chicago Booth are creating lasting and profound impact in business, culture, and society. The Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, for instance, is providing the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators with the resources they need to launch successful companies. Other centers such as the Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation are tackling some of the worlds most significant social and environmental problems. An Invaluable Asset to Our Collaborative Community The research centers at Chicago Booth, and those with whom we partner at the University of Chicago, provide our faculty, students, alumni, and those outside of our community with a reservoir of value. Here's how: Supporting Faculty Research Some of the pathbreaking research created by Booth faculty members is conducted under the auspices of our research centers, which in turn are a draw for recruiting top faculty. Supporting Faculty Research Enriching the Educational Experience At Booth, faculty members have the freedom to incorporate their research into the classes they teach. This provides our students with educational opportunities not found elsewhere. Enriching the Educational Experience Keeping Alumni Connected Through opportunities including advising startups via the Polsky Center and networking with faculty and students at a Rustandy Center event, our research centers act as a resource for alumni to remain engaged with their alma mater. Keeping Alumni Connected Expanding Our Reach Our research centers reach people outside of Booth. Policymakers and journalists, for instance, rely on the Initiative on Global Markets for insights and thought leadership from our faculty. Expanding Our Reach Dynamic Centers for Research and Innovation Developed by the Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at UChicago, the Edward L. Kaplan, 71, New Venture Challenge (NVC) is among the top-ranked university accelerator programs in the world. The Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership is a proving ground for new ideas and approaches to leadership. Booths Initiative on Global Markets supports trailblazing research and insights into international business, financial markets, and public policy. The Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation is leveraging entrepreneurial thinking to tackle the worlds toughest challenges. Find out how Booths research centers are helping mold the future of business and society. The Chookaszian Accounting Research Center The Chookaszian Accounting Research Center coordinates accounting research at Booth and hosts research brown bags and workshops. It also publishes the Journal of Accounting Research, one of the top accounting research journals in the world. The Chookaszian Accounting Research Center Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Bringing together researchers from the entire Chicago economics community, the Becker Friedman Institute for Economics fosters novel insights on the worlds most difficult economic problems. Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Center for Applied Artificial Intelligence This center supports researchers from across Booth and UChicago in making revolutionary advances in the applications of A.I. Their work touches fields as diverse as finance, health care, public policy, education, and behavioral science. Center for Applied Artificial Intelligence Center for Decision Research Positioned at the forefront of the rapidly developing field of behavioral science, CDR is devoted to building a richer understanding of human behavior and experience. Center for Decision Research Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC An affiliate of Chicago Booth, CRSP, LLC is the leading provider of historical stock market data for researchers. The center has long been an integral part of the academic and commercial world of financial and economic research. Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC Fama-Miller Center for Research in Finance With a mission to push the boundaries of research in finance, the Fama-Miller Center provides institutional structure and support for researchers in the field. Fama-Miller Center for Research in Finance George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State The Stigler Center confronts conventional thinking and investigates the obstacles preventing markets from being truly competitive. George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership The Davis Center for Leadership supports students and alumni as they develop their leadership identities and skills. Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership Healthcare Initiative The Healthcare Initiative serves as a center of gravity for the diverse disciplines that engage in healthcare research at Booth and across the university. Healthcare Initiative Initiative on Global Markets IGM organizes Booth faculty efforts to influence public policy and the practice of business around the world. By hosting expert panels, visiting thought leaders, and conferences, IGM raises the impact of Booth research. Initiative on Global Markets James M. Kilts Center for Marketing The Kilts Center for Marketing advances marketing at Booth by facilitating faculty research, supporting innovation in Booths marketing curriculum, funding scholarships, and creating engaging programs. James M. Kilts Center for Marketing Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation The Polsky Center bridges the gap between knowledge and practice, idea and action, and research and impact through education, partnerships, and new venture creation. Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation As Booths social impact hub, the Rustandy Center offers hands-on learning opportunities, supports innovative courses, and pursues researchall with the goal of developing people and practices with the potential to solve the worlds biggest problems. Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation Catalyzing Ideas into Impact Catalyzing Ideas into Impact The Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation fuels the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators with the knowledge, skills, and experience they need to turn their ideas into successful companies, products, and services. The Polsky Center runs the Edward L. Kaplan, 71, New Venture Challenge (NVC), which is recognized as one of the top accelerator programs in the nation along with accelerators such as Y Combinator and Techstars. Polsky has more than 60 professionals on staff and works with seasoned entrepreneurs and investors to provide guidance and support along the entrepreneurial journey. The center manages theSvider Private Equity Program, which includes a variety of networking opportunities and experiential programs such as the Private Equity/Venture Capital Lab class and the Innovation Fund Associates program. These opportunities prepare students for a potential career in private equity and venture capital. In recent years, the Polsky Center has helped Chicago Booth emerge as a leading university for training students on the model of entrepreneurship through acquisition (ETA), the process of running a search fund and seeking a company to acquire and manage. ETA resources include an annual conference, podcast series, and class at Booth, as well as additional resources for students interested in this career path. Polsky is also home to the University of Chicagos technology transfer office, which manages the technology and invention portfolio emerging from faculty research. Through events such as the Collaboratorium, MBA students and scientists come together to bring these nascent scientific discoveries to the market. Learn more about the Polsky Center Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership Named in honor of renowned leadership professor Harry L. Davis, Booths leadership research center serves as an incubator for generating new insights about leadership that impact education, practice, and discovery for future generations of students. The center helps foster Booths culture of curiosity and continual discovery for future generations of leaders through a deep commitment to collaboration and experimentation. The center also offers programming for alumni to learn, grow, share, and increase their impact as leaders. Explore the Davis Center Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership Stories About Our Research Center Impact How Can Brands Evolve to Meet Consumer Tastes? We asked three Booth experts with firsthand perspectives in marketing and consumer products. How Can Brands Evolve to Meet Consumer Tastes? Marketing Enriching Business Journalism at Booth's Stigler Center A unique program brings together reporters from around the world to diversify their business perspectives. Enriching Business Journalism at Booth's Stigler Center Classroom Experience The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
