Gary D. Eppen | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Emeriti Faculty Robert Aliber Gary D. Eppen John Gould Robert S. Hamada Milton Harris Joshua Klayman Richard Leftwich Albert Madansky Sam Peltzman Linus Schrage George Tiao Roman Weil Willard Zangwill Gary D. Eppen HomeFaculty and InsightsEmeriti FacultyGary D. Eppen Robert Aliber John Gould Robert S. Hamada Milton Harris Joshua Klayman Richard Leftwich Albert Madansky Sam Peltzman Linus Schrage George Tiao Roman Weil Willard Zangwill Gary D. Eppen Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Economics Emeritus Biography Books Selected Publications In The News Social Media Course Schedule Executive Education Schedule Chicago Booth Review Additional Information Biography Gary D. Eppen is the Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Operations Management, Emeritus, and former deputy dean for part-time programs at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Eppen joined Chicago Booth in 1964 as an assistant professor of industrial administration. Eppen served as associate dean for six years, director of the International Business Exchange Program for fourteen years, associate dean for PhD studies for seven years, director of the Executive MBA Program for five years, and deputy dean for part-time programs for three years. Eppen has published across a wide field of subjects: accounting, finance, marketing, purchasing, operations and optimization theory. His paper "Effects of Centralization on Expected Costs in a Multi-Location Newsboy Problem," Management Science 1979 was selected as one of the 50 most influential papers in the first 50 years of Management Science. He is also coauthor of the now-classic texts: Quantitative Concepts for Management: Decision Making without Algorithms; and Introductory Management Science. He currently serves as an independent director of Hub Group, Inc., and on the advisory board of the Power Cat Group, LLC. He held the position of director of Landauer Inc. from 1992 until 2007. Eppen earned a PhD in operations research from Cornell University in 1964, a master of science in industrial engineering from the University of Minnesota in 1960, a bachelor of science from the University of Minnesota in 1958, and an associate in arts degree in pre-engineering from Austin Junior College in 1956. Eppen was awarded the Francqui Medal by the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in 1979. He was awarded an honorary doctor of economics by the Stockholm School of Economics in May 1998. Books Coauthors: F. J. Gould and C. Schmidt. Introductory Management Science, Prentice-Hall, Inc.; 1993 (4th Edition), 1991 (3rd Edition) , 1989 (2nd Edition), 1984 (1st Edition). Coauthor: F. J. Gould. Quantitative Concepts for Management-Decision Making withoutAlgorithms, Prentice-Hall, Inc.; 1989 (3rd Edition), 1985 (2nd Edition), 1979 (1st Edition). Coauthors: D. Metcalfe and M. Walters. The M.B.A. Degree, Chicago Review Press, October 1979. Selected Publications Publications Coauthor: A. Iyer, "Backup Arrangements in Fashion Buying-The Value of UpstreamFlexibility," Management Science, September 1997. Coauthor: A. Iyer, "Improved Fashion Buying with Bayesian Updates," OperationsResearch, November-December 1997. Coauthors: W. A. Hanson and R. K. Martin. "Mining Your Product Line: Creating NewProducts with Bundlig," Sloan Management Review, Summer 1991. Coauthors: R. K. Martin and L. Schrage. "A Scenario Approach to Capacity Planning,"Operations Research, July-August 1989. Coauthor: R. K. Martin. "Determining Safety Stock in the Presence of Stochastic Lead Timeand Demand," Management Science, November 1988. Coauthor: R. K. Martin. "Solving Multi-Item Capacitated Lot Sizing Problems UsingVariable Redefinition," Operations Research, November-December 1987. Coauthors: R. K. Martin and L. Schrage. "A Mixed-Integer Programming Model forEvaluating Distribution Configurations in the Steel Industry," Computers and OperationalResearch, Volume 13, Pages 575-586, 1986. Coauthor: R. Antle. "Resource Rationing, Organizational Slack and Project Auditing,Management Science, February 1985. Coauthor: J. Lieberman. "Why Retailers Deal-An Inventory Explanation," Journal ofBusiness, October 1984. "Mathematics and Managers," Tijdschrift voor Ekonomie en Management,1981. Coauthors: R. Blattberg and J. Lieberman. "A Theoretical and Empirical Evaluation of PriceDeals for Consumer Nondurables," Journal of Marketing, Winter 1981. Coauthor: L. Schrage. "Centralized Ordering Policies in a Multiwarehouse System withLead Times and Random Demand," Multilevel Production/Inventory Control Systems:Theory and Practice, North Holland Publishing Company, February 1981. "Effects of Centralization on Expected Costs in a Multi-Location Newsboy Problem,"Management Science, May 1979. Coauthors: H. L. Davis and L. G. Mattson. "Critical Factors in Worldwide Purchasing,"Harvard Business School, November-December 1974. Coauthor: E. G. Hurst, Jr. "Optimal Location of Inspection Stations in a MultistageProduction Process," Management Science, April I974. Coauthor: E. F. Fama. "A Three Asset Dynamic Portfolio Model," Management Science,January 1971. Coauthors: F. J. Gould and B. P. Pashigian. "Extensions of the Planning Horizon Theoremin the Dynamic Economic Lot Size Model," Management Science, January 1969. Coauthor: E. F. Fama. "Cash Balance and Simple Dynamic Portfolio Problems witProportional Costs," International Economic Review, June 1969. Coauthor: F. J. Gould. "A Lagrangian Application to Production Models," OperationsResearch, July-August 1968. Coauthor: E. F. Fama. "Solutions for Cash Balance and Simple Dynamic PortfolioProblems," Journal of Business, January 1968. Coauthor: G. de Ghellinck. "Linear Programming Solutions for Separable MarkovianDecision Problems," Management Science, January 1967. "Convexity-Preserving Transformation with Stochastic Matrices," Journal of S.l.A.M., March 1966. "A Dynamic Analysis of a Class of Deteriorating Systems," Management Science, March 1966. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
