Department of Computer Applications MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology HOME STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Mandatory Disclosure Contact Us Show More Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Campus Life Campus Life Experience Student Clubs Student Projects and Activities Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Achivements Achivements Student Achievements Faculty Achievements Entrepreneurs Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research and Consultancy Details Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Computer Applications Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Computer Applications Overview The Department of Computer Applications was started in 1998 as a part of the Department of Mathematics, affiliated to the Mangalore University. Subsequently, it was a part of the Information and Communication Technology engineering department under Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE then called the erstwhile Manipal University) Since 2009, this department has been functioning as an independent department at MIT, MAHE, offering the 2-year Master of Computer Applications program. Over the years, the department has evolved into a center for excellence providing opportunities for innovation and research with well-equipped computer facilities and dedicated faculty, who apart from their regular teaching schedule, are actively involved in pursuing research in various areas like Data Science, Image Processing, Video Coding, Network Security, Knowledge Engineering and Cloud Computing.The department has a good record of research activities with many publications in conferences and journals. The department has three research groups namely Data and Knowledge Discovery, Multimedia Computing and Communication, and Computer Vision. The groups are active and are conducting various activities such as workshops, seminars, and other events. Key features Enhances learning experience with practical experience through internships, mini projects and practice school project work. Core competencies Software Engineering and Application development Data and knowledge discovery Image Processing Multimedia Computing and Communication Computer Vision Artificial Intelligence and Virtual Reality Collaborations The department has an MOU with Athlone Institute of Technology, Ireland for research collaboration and student exchange. It is also a part of IAESTE for MCA students. Infrastructure and Labs The department is located strategically in the fourth floor Innovation Center of MIT in Academic Block 4. The department has ample number of classrooms on the fifth floor and provides dedicated lab facilities for running lab-associated courses to undergraduate/postgraduate/research programs. Four computer labs are available for students to work on their course-based laboratory activities ranging fromNetwork Programming,Operating System,Database Management and Information Retrieval, Machine Learning,General Purpose Programming, and Mobile Application Development. Additionally, a separate research lab is available for the research scholars registered in the department. The department also houses a Center for Virtual Reality for AR-VR based research and live projects Placement Details Students of the department have successfully carried out final semester internships with Cerner Healthcare, Deloitte, Accenture, HackerEarth, MicroFocus, TCS, AppyHigh, Philips Mphasis to name a few hiring MCA graduates. The department is well supported by the institute placement team of MIT. Programs The Department of Computer Applications, MIT offers the following programs: MCA - Master of Computer Applications Faculty Dr.Karunakar Kotegar A Professor & Head Dr.Hareesha K S Professor Dr. Poornima Panduranga Kundapur Associate Professor Dr. Rohini R Rao Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Tojo Thomas Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Archana H Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Mr.Akshay Bhat Assistant Professor Linda Varghese Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Vinayak M Assistant Professor-Senior Scale Nirmal Kumar Nigam Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Dr. Manjunath Vishweshwar Hegde Assistant Professor Dr. Raghurama Holla Assistant Professor Dr. Sandhya Parasnath Dubey Assistant Professor Dr. Vidya Rao Assistant Professor Dr Savitha G Assistant Professor Dr. Ramakrishna M Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Raghupathi C. N. Adjunct Faculty & Senior Advisor and former Head, India Business, Infosys VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Includes resources for reference and study Class rooms AC classrooms fitted with LCD and audio-visual equipment Research Laboratory Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications In addition to their regular teaching work, the faculty members are actively involved in research works in various areas like data mining, network security, video coding and knowledge engineering, multimedia computing and communication, computer vision & machine learning and natural language processing. Academic Research View All Student Testimonials Manipal has the perfect blend of education and extra-curriculum activities. Living with people across different nations, culture and religion, this seamless structure makes it very easy for us to develop our inter-personal skills thereby helping us throughout our professional as well as private life. I have spent the most cherish-able and the best three years of my life at Manipal! Susmita Das Manipal has played a transformational role in our lives. It began the moment we set foot on campus, and it continues to shape who we are today. I grew as an individual, learning to interact and talk to people from different backgrounds. I enjoyed the caring and friendly environment at MIT. My experience at MIT has meant career advancement to a highly responsible and technically challenging position in a leading-edge software company. Along with that goes an increased sense of self-esteem and a feeling of accomplishment and personal satisfaction. Anil Krishna Kamath MIT Manipal I love studying at Manipal University because is it one of the best and leading University providing quality education and industrial experience. It also gives exposure to get together with people who come all over the World. It really is the best thing that has ever happened to me. Karan Gathani The facility is so good that it Motivates me to put in my best, The faculty is so well qualified that they Inspire me to work hard, The curriculum is so well set that it makes me Thorough with the subjects. Saasha Nair About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE We use cookies on this website to make your browsing experience better. By continuing to use this website, you agree to our Privacy & Cookie Policy. Accept and Continue
