Sam Peltzman | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Emeriti Faculty Robert Aliber Gary D. Eppen John Gould Robert S. Hamada Milton Harris Joshua Klayman Richard Leftwich Albert Madansky Sam Peltzman Linus Schrage George Tiao Roman Weil Willard Zangwill Sam Peltzman HomeFaculty and InsightsEmeriti FacultySam Peltzman Robert Aliber Gary D. Eppen John Gould Robert S. Hamada Milton Harris Joshua Klayman Richard Leftwich Albert Madansky Linus Schrage George Tiao Roman Weil Willard Zangwill Sam Peltzman Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Economics Emeritus Biography Selected Publications In The News Social Media Course Schedule Executive Education Schedule Chicago Booth Review Additional Information Biography Sam Peltzman is the Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Economics at the Booth School of Business, University of Chicago. He received his PhD in economics from the University of Chicago in 1965, and he has previously taught at the University of California, Los Angeles. He also served as senior staff economist for the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers. He has been on the faculty of the University of Chicagos School of Business since 1973. Peltzmans research has focused on issues related to the interface between the public sector and the private economy. His published work includes numerous articles in academic journals. These encompass many issues in the general areas of the economics of government regulation and industrial organization, including the regulation of banking, automobile safety, pharmaceutical innovation, the growth of government, the political economy of public education, and the economic analysis of voters and legislators. He is the author or an editor of several books, including Political Participation and Government Regulation and The Deregulation of Network Industries: Whats Next. Peltzman is currently an editor of the Journal of Law and Economics and is the Director Emeritus of the George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State at the University of Chicago. He served as director of the Stigler Center from 1991-2005. He serves on the editorial boards of several academic journals and on the Council of Academic Advisers of the American Enterprise Institute. Selected Publications Publications Offsetting Behavior, Medical Breakthroughs, and Breakdowns,Journal of Human Capital.Fall, 2011. Ronald Coase and the Methodology of Economics,Journal of Law and Economics.November, 2011. Introduction to Stiglers Theory of Oligopoly, (with Dennis Carlton),Competition Policy International,v6, n 2, Nov 2010. Competition, Regulation and the Role of Local Government Policies in Swedish Markets, (with Stefan Folster) ch 8 in Richard B. Freeman, Swedenborg, Birgitta and Topel, RobertReforming the Welfare State:Recovery and Beyond in Sweden.University of Chicago Press, 2010 (in Swedish as Konkurrenspolitik och kommunalpolitik-effekter pa produktivitet och tillvaxt inNBER Rapportten.SNS Forlag, Stockholm, 2006). Mortality Inequality,Journal of Economic Perspectives.v23,n4, Fall, 2009. W(h)ither Regulation?,Competition and Regulation in Network Industriesv8, n.4, 2007. George Joseph Stigler in Henry W. de Jong and William G. Shepherd (eds.)Pioneers of Industrial Organization: How the Economics of Competition and Monopoly Took Shape,Edward Elgar, 2007. Reprinted as ch.2 in Cohen,Lloyd R. and Wright, Joshua D. (eds.),Pioneers of Law and Economics.Edward Elgar, 2009. Aaron Directors Influence on Antitrust Policy,Journal of Law and Economics,October, 2005. Also translated as La Influencia de Aaron Director en la Politico Antimonopolio,Revista de Economio y Derecho,January, 2006. Regulation and the Natural Progress of Opulence AEI-Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies, 2005 (The 2004 Distinguished Lecture of the AEI-Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies). (reprinted inEconomic Affairs,v30, n2, June 2010). School Performance and the Youth Labor Market, (with Kevin M. Murphy),Journal of Labor Economics,v22, n2, April, 2004. Firm Responses to Income Inequality and the Cost of Time, (with Peter B. Pashigian and Jeanne-mey Sun)Review of Industrial Organization,October, 2003 The Decline of Antitrust Enforcement,Review of Industrial Organization,August, 2001 Millers Prescription,Regulation,Spring, 2001 Deregulation of Network Industries: Whats Next: ed. with Clifford Winston, Brookings, 2000 Prices Rise Faster than they Fall.Journal of Political Economy,June, 2000 Political Participation and Government Regulation, University of Chicago Press, 1998. "Political Economy of Public Education: Non-College Bound Students,"Journal of Law & Economics, April, 1996. The Economics of Organized Crime: ed. with Gianluca Fiorentini, Cambridge University Press, 1995. "Political Factors in Public School Decline."The American Enterprise, July, 1993. "George Stigler's Contribution to the Economics of Regulation,"Journal of Political Economy, October, 1993. "The Political Economy of the Decline of American Public Education,"Journal of Law & Economics, April, 1993. Comment on P. Joskow, N. Rose & A. Shepard "Regulatory Constraints on CEO Compensation,"Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Microeconomics, 1993. Voters as Fiscal Conservatives"Quarterly Journal of Economics, May, 1992. Comments on A. Klevorick "Directions and Trends in Industrial Organization,Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Microeconomics, 1991. "The Handbook of Industrial Organization: A Review Article,"Journal of Political Economy, February, 1991. "How Efficient is the Voting Market?"Journal of Law and Economics, April, 1990. Comment on M. Salinger, "The Concentration-Margins Relationship Reconsidered,"Brooking Papers on Economic Activity: Microeconomics, 1990. "The Failure of Enforcement,"British Journal of Addiction, May, 1989. The Economic Theory of Regulation After a Decade of Deregulation,"Brookings Paperson Economic Activity, Microeconomics, 1989. Comment on J. Stiglitz, "Technological Change, Sunk Costs and Competition,"Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, 1987, n. 3. Comment on R. Zeckhauser and M. Horn, "The Control and Performance of State-Owned Enterprise" in P. MacAvoy, W. T. Stansbury, G. Yarrow and R. Zeckhauser,Privatization and State-Owned Enterprise, Boston: Kluwer, 1988. "By Prescription Only,"Regulation, 1987, n. 3/4. Comment on R. B. Freeman, "How do Public Sector Wages and Employment Respond to Economic Conditions" in D. Wise (ed.)Public Sector Payrolls, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987. "The Health Effects of Mandatory Prescriptions,"Journal of Law and Economics, October, 1987. "Economic Conditions and Gubernatorial Elections,"American Economic Review, May, 1987. "Regulation and Health: The Case of Mandatory Prescriptions and an Extension,"Managerial and Decision Economics, March 1987. "An Economic Interpretation of the History of Congressional Voting,"American Economic Review, September, 1985. "The Impact of Product Recalls on the Wealth of Sellers," (with Gregg Jarrell)Journal of Political Economy, June, 1985. Comment on "Bank Market Structure and Competition: A Survey,"Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, November, 1984. "Constituent Interest and Congressional Voting,"Journal of Law and Economics, April, 1984. "Peltzman on Regulation and Politics: Reply,"Public Choice, September, 1982. "Passive Restraints: An Economists View" (with Glenn Blomquist) in R. Crandall and L. Lave (eds.)The Scientific Basis of Health and Safety Regulation: Brookings, 1981. "The Effect of FTC Advertising Regulation,"Journal of Law and Economics, December, 1981. "Current Developments in the Economics of Regulation" in G. Fromm (ed.)Studies in Public RegulationMIT, 1981. "The Growth of Government,"Journal of Law & Economics, October, 1980. Comment on R. Schotland, "Conflicts of Interest Within the Financial Firm: Regulatory Implications," in F. Edwards (ed.)Issues in Financial Regulation, New York: McGraw Hill, 1979. Review of D. Schwartzman,Innovation in the Pharmaceutical Industry,Journal of Economic Literature,March, 1978. "The Causes and Consequences of Rising Industrial Concentration: A Reply,"Journal of Law and Economics, April, 1979. Reply to Leon S. Robertson: "A Critical Analysis of Peltzman's 'The Effects of Automobile Safety Regulation,'"Journal of Economic Issues, September, 1977. "The Effects of Regulation and New Drugs," in B. Siegan (ed.),The Interaction of Economics and the Law, Lexington Massachusetts: Lexington Books, 1977. "The Gains and Losses from Industrial Concentration,"Journal of Law and Economics, October, 1977. "Effects of CAB Regulation," in U.S. Senate, Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedures, Committee on Judiciary,Oversight of CAB Practices and Procedures, Vol. 3, 1975. "Effects of Automobile Safety Regulation: Reply,"Accident Analysis and Prevention, June, 1976. "Toward a More General Theory of Regulation,"Journal of Law and Economics, August, 1976. "The Regulation of Automobile Safety," in R. L. Miller and H. Manne (eds.),Auto Safety Regulation: The Cure or the Problem, Glen Ridge, NJ: Horton, 1976. The Regulation of Automobile Safety, American Enterprise Institute, 1976. "The 1962 Drug Amendments: Reply,"Journal of Political Economy, May/June, 1975. "The Effects of Auto Safety Regulation,"Journal of Political Economy, July/August, 1975. The Regulation of Pharmaceutical Innovation, American Enterprise Institute, 1975. "The Diffusion of Pharmaceutical Innovation," in R. B. Helms (ed.)Drug Development and Marketing, American Enterprise Institute, 1975. "The Benefits and Costs of New Drug Regulation," inRegulating New Drugs, ed. by Richard Landau, University of Chicago, Center for Policy Study, 1973. "An Evaluation of Consumer Protection Regulation: The 1962 Drug Amendments,"Journal of Political Economy, October, 1973. (Reprinted in Benefit-Cost Policy Analysis, 1973. Chicago: Aldine, 1974.) "The Effect of Government Subsidies-in-Kind on Private Expenditures: The Case of Higher Education,"Journal of Political Economy, January/February, 1973. "The Costs of Competition: An Appraisal of the Hunt Commission Report,"Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, November, 1972. "Local v. National Pollution Control: Note" (with T. N. Tideman),American Economic Review, December, 1972. "Pricing in Public and Private Enterprises: Electric Utilities in the United States,"Journal of Law and Economics, April, 1971. Review of E. Kohn and C. Carlo, "The Competitive Impact of New Branches,"Journal of Business, October, 1970. Review of D. Alhadeff,Competition and Controls in Commercial Banking,Journal of Business, July, 1970. "Expenditures and the Compensation of the Money Supply, "Review of Economicsand Statistics, May 1970. "The Structure of the Money-Expenditures Relationship: Reply,American Economic Review, March, 1970. "Capital Investment in Commercial Banking and Its Relationship to Bank Portfolio Regulation," Journal of Political Economy, January/February, 1970. "The Banking Structure and the Transmission of Monetary Policy,"Journal of Finance, June, 1969. "The Structure of the Money-Expenditures Relationship,"American Economic Review, March, 1969. Public Policy Toward Mergers, ed. with J. Fred Weston (Pacific Palisades, California, 1969). (Includes) "Issues in Vertical Integration Policy," and "The Relevance of Profit Data for Public Policy." Review of Gerald C. Fischer,American Banking Structure, Journal of Business, October, 1968. "Bank Stock Prices and Effects of Regulation of the Banking Structure,"Journal of Business, October, 1968. "Bank Entry Regulation: Its Impact and Purpose,"National Banking Review, December, 1965. Reprinted in U.S. Treasury,Studies in Banking Competition and the Banking Structure, Washington, 1966. "Entry in Commercial Banking,"Journal of Law and Economics, October, 1965. "CAB: Freedom from Competition,"New Individualist Review, Spring, 1963. "The Relative Importance of Unionization and Productivity in Increasing Wages,"Labor Law Journal, August, 1961. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
