Faculty and Insights | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program HomeFaculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Faculty and Insights Leading scholars. Global thought leaders. Analytical thinkers. Bold doers. The Chicago Booth faculty are a diverse group of more than 200 preeminent scholars of business, committed to the success of every student, in every Booth program, at all three of our global campuses. At Booth, we are proud of our award-winning facultyincluding our nine Nobel Prizewinning professorswho have helped shape the world as it is today. That transformative knowledge, expertise, and commitment to creating enduring impact extends throughout the more than 200 tenured, tenure-track, clinical, and adjunct professors who teach our MBA and PhD students and our Executive Education participants. Teachers and Mentors First Faculty members at Booth are known for their award-winning research. World leaders, media outlets, and top global companies regularly turn to them for their expertise and insights. At the same time, our facultyare committed to teaching and mentoring students in every program at all of our campuses. Heres how our faculty are different: Academic Freedom They have the freedom to bring their cutting-edge knowledge of business fundamentals into the classroom in the ways that they believe will bring the most transformative, enduring value for their students. Academic Freedom Innovative Curriculum They teach how they feel will work best, always adapting and innovating their curriculum to be more relevant, timely, and most effective at helping studentsregardless of their program or career goalsachieve success. Innovative Curriculum Research with Impact Their research not only creates enduring impact in the worldit creates enduring impact in the Booth classroom. Booth students receive an inside look into the latest and most relevant research and academic literature. Research with Impact Faculty Research Awards and Honors At Booth, we celebrate the success of our faculty, who regularly receive the most prestigious awards in their fieldsfrom accounting and economics to finance and the social sciences. Here are some of the most recent awards our faculty have received. Ralph S. J. Koijen Winner of the 2021 Berncer Prize for for his influential research on the pricing of risk in equity and insurance markets. Ralph S. J. Koijen John Birge Winner of the C3.ai Digital Transformation Institute Award in 2021. John Birge Steven Neil Kaplan First-place winner, Jensen Prizes for the Best Papers Published in the Journal of Financial Economics in the Areas of Corporate Finance and Organizations, 2020 Steven Neil Kaplan Stefan Nagel First-place winner, Fama-DFA Prizes for the Best Papers Published in the Journal of Financial Economics in the Areas of Capital Markets and Asset Pricing, 2020 Stefan Nagel Marianne Bertrand Elected to the National Academy of Sciences. Marianne Bertrand Constantine Yannelis Winner of the AQR Asset Management Institute Young Researcher Award 2021. Constantine Yannelis Wenxin Du Awarded a Sloan Research Fellowship for 2021. Wenxin Du Delphine Samuels Recipient of the American Accounting Association 2020 Competitive Manuscript Award. Delphine Samuels George Wu Recipient of the Chicago Urban Leagues 2020 Humanitarian Award. George Wu Stories of Faculty Impact Line of Inquiry: Amir Sufi on How Income Inequality Is Holding Back the US Economy More than an issue of fairness, income inequality makes the economy work less well for everyone. Line of Inquiry: Amir Sufi on How Income Inequality Is Holding Back the US Economy CBR - Economics Without Cookies, Online Advertisers Have to Piece Together Crumbs Companies have few good options for constructing accurate user profiles. Without Cookies, Online Advertisers Have to Piece Together Crumbs CBR - Marketing Fracking Is Linked to Higher Salt Concentration in Surface Waters Better water-quality data are needed for scientists to fully understand the surface-water impact of unconventional oil and gas development. Fracking Is Linked to Higher Salt Concentration in Surface Waters CBR - Public Policy Read More in Chicago Booth Review New Faculty at Booth Discover some of the most recent preeminent scholars to join our faculty. Milena Almagro Assistant Professor of Economics Milena Almagro Anna Costello Professor of Accounting Anna Costello See All Booth Faculty Choose Your Path to Success Tell us about yourself, and we will show you the value of a Booth education. Request Information Request Information Choose Your Path to Success Dive Deeper into Booth Faculty and Insights Find a Faculty Member The faculty at Booth possess an unwavering commitment to the success of every student, in every program, at each of our three global campuses. Find a Faculty Member Explore Our Academic Areas Discover the 11 academic areas under which our pathbreaking faculty conduct research and teach. Explore Our Academic Areas Learn About Our Nobel Laureates Since the creation of the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences, nine of our faculty members have won the award. Learn more about each of our Nobel laureates. Learn About Our Nobel Laureates Discover Our Dynamic Centers for Research and Innovation In subject areas from entrepreneurship to artificial intelligence, our research centers are creating lasting and profound impact in business, culture, and society. Discover Our Dynamic Centers for Research and Innovation Why I Teach What I Teach: Amy Ward In her Service Operations class, Booth professor Amy Ward and her students explore how to manage resources as efficiently as possible while keeping customers as happy as possible. Exit Video Video Transcript Amy Ward: (00:02) The course I'm teaching is Service Operations. I like teaching the Service Operations course, and I like thinking about how to improve services, because if I can think about ways to improve it, it impacts my life. One of the reasons I'm passionate about thinking about service operations, both in my research and in my teaching, is because when I make a dent in improving the efficiency of these processes, that is something that's gonna come around and help me. It's gonna give me more time. It's gonna give me time back in my day, because I'm not gonna spend that time wasted, waiting. Amy Ward: (00:33) Some of the problems arising from COVID are giving new slants to operation management problems. Let's take the COVID vaccine. The conditions under which we deliver it have to ensure cold storage delivery. And so that's a much more complicated process to carry out. Think about online ordering, this is something we've been doing for a while now. It's been a growth area maybe for the past decade or more. Now there's an explosion due to COVID. Amy Ward: (00:58) The first time I taught the Service Operations course was in Winter 2019. So in the past, one goal has been to create a sense of community for the class and to encourage an environment where we can learn from each other's experiences. And that's what the discussions are aimed at. I adapted my teaching in this age of COVID. Amy Ward: (01:16) One change is that I'd like to have some prerecorded videos and treat at least a couple of the class sessions as time for breaking into groups and using the material and the videos to solve the problems. The basics of the course have not changed. That is, our goal remains to understand how to deliver excellent service. Chicago Booth MBA Masterclass Series Go inside the Booth classroom by viewing past MBA Masterclass sessions with our world-class faculty, and sign up for future, real-time MBA Masterclass virtual events. Chicago Booth MBA Masterclass Series Explore More in This Section Apply to Faculty Positions Learn more about applying to our open faculty positions and joining the world-renowned faculty at Booth. Apply to Faculty Positions Learn About Our Research Workshops Our research workshops provide a forum for faculty, PhD students, and invited guests to present, discuss, and debate new research. Learn About Our Research Workshops See Booth's Academic Journals Discover the academic journals that Booth has the primary responsibility for editing, and the journals that were founded here. See Booth's Academic Journals Apply to the Research Staff Program Researchers with undergraduate or graduate experience can support award-winning faculty research at Booth. Apply to the Research Staff Program The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
