Nobel Laureates | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Nobel Laureates George J. Stigler Merton H. Miller Ronald Coase Gary Becker Robert W. Fogel Myron S. Scholes Eugene F. Fama Lars Peter Hansen Richard H. Thaler HomeFaculty and InsightsNobel Laureates George J. Stigler Merton H. Miller Ronald Coase Gary Becker Robert W. Fogel Myron S. Scholes Eugene F. Fama Lars Peter Hansen Richard H. Thaler Faculty and Insights Chicago Booth Nobel Laureates Visionaries. Pathbreakers. Bold thinkers. Since Swedens central bank, Sveriges Riksbank, established the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 1968, nine Chicago Booth faculty members have won the award, beginning in 1982 with George Stigler. Three Nobel laureates currently teach on our faculty. We are proud of our pathbreaking Nobel laureates, each of whom has made profound contributions to the University of Chicago, the field of economics, and the world. Discover more about them below. George J. Stigler Stigler received the 1982 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his seminal studies of industrial structures, the functioning of markets, and the causes and effects of public regulation. George J. Stigler Merton H. Miller Miller won the 1990 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his pioneering work in the theory of financial economics. Merton H. Miller Ronald Coase Coase won the 1991 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his breakthroughs in understanding the institutional structure of the economy. Ronald Coase Gary Becker In 1992, Becker won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for having extended the domain of microeconomic analysis to include a wide range of human behavior and interaction. Gary Becker Robert W. Fogel Fogel shared his 1993 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for having renewed research in economic history by applying economic theory and quantitative methods. Robert W. Fogel Myron S. Scholes Scholes shared the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 1997 with Robert C. Merton for a new method of determining the value of derivatives. Myron S. Scholes Eugene F. Fama Fama received the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his groundbreaking research on efficient markets. He shared the prize with Lars Peter Hansen and Robert J. Shiller. Eugene F. Fama Lars Peter Hansen Hansen was recognized in 2013 for his work in advancing the understanding of asset prices through empirical analysis. Lars Peter Hansen Richard H. Thaler Thaler won the 2017 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to behavioral economics, a field that emerged to fill the gap between psychology and economics. Richard H. Thaler The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
