Booth Academic Journals | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Booth Academic Journals HomeFaculty and InsightsBooth Academic Journals Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Research Staff Program Faculty and Insights Booth Academic Journals Some of the worlds most prestigious academic and scholarly journals were established at Chicago Booth. Currently, Booth has primary responsibility for editing three journals: the Journal of Accounting Research, the Journal of Law and Economics, and the Journal of Political Economy. Historically, four other journals were founded at Booth: the Journal of Business, the Journal of Econometrics, the Journal of Labor Economics, and Quantitative Marketing and Economics. Active Journals Journal of Accounting Research The Journal of Accounting Research (JAR) is the oldest private research journal in the field of accounting. Launched in 1963 and consistently regarded as one of the top accounting research journals in the world, it is a general-interest accounting journal that publishes original research using analytical, empirical, experimental, and field study methods in all areas of accounting. Learn More about the Journal of Accounting Research Journal of Econometrics The late Arnold Zellner, the HGB Alexander Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Economics and Statistics at Booth before his death, cofounded the Journal of Econometrics in 1973. The journal serves as an outlet for important new research in both theoretical and applied econometrics. The scope of the journal includes papers dealing with estimation and other methodological aspects of the application of statistical inference to economic data, as well as papers dealing with the application of econometric techniques to substantive areas of economics. Learn More about the Journal of Econometrics Journal of Law and Economics Established in 1958, the Journal of Law and Economics publishes research on a broad range of topics including the economic analysis of regulation and the behavior of regulated firms, the political economy of legislation and legislative processes, law and finance, corporate finance and governance, and industrial organization. The journal has published some of the most influential and widely cited articles in these areas. Learn More about the Journal of Law and Economics Journal of Labor Economics Founded in January 1983 by Edward P. Lazear, Glenn MacDonald, George Neumann, and Robert H. Topel, the Isidore Brown and Gladys J. Brown Distinguished Service Professor of Economics at Booth, the Journal of Labor Economics presents international research on the relationship between labor and the economy. Contributors investigate various aspects of labor economics, including supply and demand of labor services, personnel economics, distribution of income, unions and collective bargaining, applied and policy issues in labor economics, and labor markets and demographics. Learn More about the Journal of Labor Economics Journal of Political Economy The Journal of Political Economy, founded in 1892, is one of the oldest economics journals. The journal presents research on the relationship between government and the economy, and is edited in cooperation with members of the Kenneth C. Griffin Department of Economics at the University of Chicago. Articles are published on several areas, including monetary theory, fiscal policy, and labor economics and their impact on economics. Learn More about the Journal of Political Economy Quantitative Marketing and Economics Founded in 2003 by Booth graduate Peter E. Rossi, MBA '80, PhD '84, Quantitative Marketing and Economics (QME) highlights research in the marketing, economics, and statistics categories. It focuses on problems that are important to marketing using a quantitative approach. Learn More about Quantitative Marketing and Economics Inactive Journals Journal of Business Founded in 1928, the Journal of Business is believed to be one of the first scholarly journals that highlighted business-themed research. The journal covered several areas, including business finance and investment, money and banking, marketing, international trade and finance, and administration. Given the emergence of many specialized business journals, the faculty decided after careful deliberation to cease publication of this more broadly focused journal in 2006. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
