Faculty Impact | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Request Information from Booth Loading... Select Submit Success Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Why Chicago Booth? Booth Stories The Chicago Approach History of Innovation Faculty Impact A Global Footprint Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Our Collaborative Community Leadership Impact A Lifetime of Career Advancement Faculty Impact HomeWhy Chicago Booth?Faculty Impact Booth Stories The Chicago Approach History of Innovation A Global Footprint Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Our Collaborative Community Leadership Impact A Lifetime of Career Advancement Faculty Shaping the Future Scholars. Teachers. Mentors. Our faculty make the difference. The unquestioned strength of Chicago Booth is our world-renowned faculty. Over our history, nine Booth scholars have won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences. In just the past few years, Booth facultyhave won major awards in the fields of finance, economics, psychology, accounting, and social sciences. Booth professors advise the governments of some of the worlds biggest economies, and many faculty are sought-after experts for the global media. Top companies worldwide turn to Booth faculty as consultants and board members. At the same time, our faculty are dedicated teachers and mentors. Our professors are based in Chicago, but they teach every Booth course, in every program, at all our campusesChicago, London, and Hong Kong. Faculty bring their research passion and real-world experiences into the classroom, constructing each course to reflect the realities of todays business world. They value student contributions and ideas in and outside the classroom, and strive to shape a truly collaborative, dynamic classroom experience, to prepare all students to succeed throughout their careers. What surprised me about Booth faculty? Just how approachable they were. I know they're really top faculty, and my last academic experience was as an undergrad. Now, Im a little later in life. I have some life experience. Were still their students, but they also see us as peers. Amy Altchuler, 19 Why I Teach What I Teach: Amy Ward In her Service Operations class, Booth professor Amy Ward and her students explore how to manage resources as efficiently as possible while keeping customers as happy as possible. Exit Video Video Transcript Amy Ward: (00:02) The course I'm teaching is Service Operations. I like teaching the Service Operations course, and I like thinking about how to improve services, because if I can think about ways to improve it, it impacts my life. One of the reasons I'm passionate about thinking about service operations, both in my research and in my teaching, is because when I make a dent in improving the efficiency of these processes, that is something that's gonna come around and help me. It's gonna give me more time. It's gonna give me time back in my day, because I'm not gonna spend that time wasted, waiting. Amy Ward: (00:33) Some of the problems arising from COVID are giving new slants to operation management problems. Let's take the COVID vaccine. The conditions under which we deliver it have to ensure cold storage delivery. And so that's a much more complicated process to carry out. Think about online ordering, this is something we've been doing for a while now. It's been a growth area maybe for the past decade or more. Now there's an explosion due to COVID. Amy Ward: (00:58) The first time I taught the Service Operations course was in Winter 2019. So in the past, one goal has been to create a sense of community for the class and to encourage an environment where we can learn from each other's experiences. And that's what the discussions are aimed at. I adapted my teaching in this age of COVID. Amy Ward: (01:16) One change is that I'd like to have some prerecorded videos and treat at least a couple of the class sessions as time for breaking into groups and using the material and the videos to solve the problems. The basics of the course have not changed. That is, our goal remains to understand how to deliver excellent service. Chicago Booth MBA Masterclass Series Go inside the Booth classroom by viewing past MBA Masterclass sessions with our world-class faculty, and sign up for future, real-time MBA Masterclass virtual events. Chicago Booth MBA Masterclass Series Chicago Booth Review Benefit from the research and perspectives of some of the world's premier business scholars. Chicago Booth Review Choose Your Path to Success Tell us about yourself, and we will show you the value of a Booth education. Request Information Request Information Choose Your Path to Success Booth is a school with amazing achievements and assetsthe greatest being our extraordinary faculty, who produce pathbreaking ideas with global impact. We use that knowledge to influence and educate the best leaders in the world. Madhav Rajan, Dean and George Pratt Shultz Professor of Accounting Global Thought Leaders In their research and their commentary on the economy, policy, markets, and more, Booth faculty make a profound impact on business around the world. Here are a selection of recent news stories. Visit In the News for the latest roundup of faculty thought leadership in the media. Randall Kroszner on the Fed and Small Businesses Booth economics professor Randall Kroszner, former governor of the Federal Reserve, talks with Yahoo! Finance about the impact of the pandemic. Randall Kroszner on the Fed and Small Businesses Jane Risen and Talismans in Times of Crisis The New York Times reports on Jane Risen'sresearch suggesting that, in times of crisis, people are looking for anything to stabilize themselves, even superstition. Jane Risen and Talismans in Times of Crisis Marianne Bertrand on the Low Wages for Essential Workers In this Washington Post article, Booth professor Marianne Bertrand says policymakers have tools at their disposal to improve the lot of low-wage workers who do the economys most essential jobs. Marianne Bertrand on the Low Wages for Essential Workers Supporting Groundbreaking Research Booth has a total of 13 research centers, each driving innovation and breakthroughs that are shaping the future. The Chookaszian Accounting Research Center The Chookaszian Accounting Research Center coordinates accounting research at Booth and hosts research brown bags and workshops. It also publishes the Journal of Accounting Research, one of the top accounting research journals in the world. The Chookaszian Accounting Research Center Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Bringing together researchers from the entire Chicago economics community, the Becker Friedman Institute for Economics fosters novel insights on the worlds most difficult economic problems. Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Center for Applied Artificial Intelligence The Center for Applied AI supports researchers from across Booth and UChicago in making revolutionary advances in the applications of AI. Their work touches fields as diverse as finance, health care, public policy, education, and behavioral science. Center for Applied Artificial Intelligence Center for Decision Research Positioned at the forefront of the rapidly developing field of behavioral science, CDR is devoted to building a richer understanding of human behavior and experience. Center for Decision Research Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC An affiliate of Chicago Booth, CRSP, LLC is the leading provider of historical stock market data for researchers. The center has long been an integral part of the academic and commercial world of financial and economic research. Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC Fama-Miller Center for Research in Finance With a mission to push the boundaries of research in finance, the Fama-Miller Center provides institutional structure and support for researchers in the field. Fama-Miller Center for Research in Finance George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State The Stigler Center promotes and disseminates research on regulatory capture, crony capitalism, and the various distortions that special interest groups impose on capitalism. George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership The Davis Center for Leadership supports students and alumni as they develop their leadership identities and skills. Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership Healthcare Initiative The Healthcare Initiative serves as a center of gravity for the diverse disciplines that engage in healthcare research at Booth and across the university. Healthcare Initiative Initiative on Global Markets IGM organizes Booth faculty efforts to influence public policy and the practice of business around the world. By hosting expert panels, visiting thought leaders, and conferences, IGM raises the impact of Booth research. Initiative on Global Markets James M. Kilts Center for Marketing The Kilts Center for Marketing advances marketing at Booth by facilitating faculty research, supporting innovation in Booths marketing curriculum, funding scholarships, and creating engaging programs. James M. Kilts Center for Marketing Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation The Polsky Center bridges the gap between knowledge and practice, idea and action, and research and impact through education, partnerships, and new venture creation. Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation As Booths social impact hub, the Rustandy Center offers hands-on learning opportunities, supports innovative courses, and pursues researchall with the goal of developing people and practices with the potential to solve the worlds biggest problems. Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation Explore Our Programs Ready for a transformative education at one of the best business schools in Europe? Earn an Executive MBA at our London campus or build your skills in our Executive Education courses, held in London and around the EMEA region. MBA Programs Achieve more with an MBA degree from Chicago Booth. Offered in four formatsincluding Executive MBA programs based in Chicago, London, and Hong Kongto suit your personal and professional goals. MBA Programs PhD Program Explore your research interests and earn a PhD from one of the best business PhD programs in the world. PhD Program Executive Education Choose from nearly 50 open-enrollment programs worldwide, or create a custom program tailored to meet your organizations unique challenges. Executive Education Explore Faculty Impact at Booth Master Class with Austan D. Goolsbee: The Power of Platforms In Goolsbees Platform Competition course, students learn all about digital platforms, from their economic foundations to the impact of their competition. Master Class with Austan D. Goolsbee: The Power of Platforms Classroom Experience Experience the Chicago Approach Difference Booths MBA Masterclass Series lets prospective students experience the transformative MBA classroomvirtually or on demand. Experience the Chicago Approach Difference Classroom Experience Crypto and Consumer Choice: Q&A with Giovanni Compiani Professor Compiani shares insights from his research on cryptocurrency demand, investors beliefs, and consumer behavior. Crypto and Consumer Choice: Q&A with Giovanni Compiani Marketing Engage Further with Why Booth Explore Innovation and Entrepreneurship More than a century after our founding, we still believe in pushing the boundaries of business as usual. Explore Innovation and Entrepreneurship Gain a Global Perspective At Booth, business education has a global foundation. Gain a Global Perspective The Executive MBA Program is registered under the Hong Kong Education Bureau. Registration No.: 262427. It is a matter of discretion for individual employers to recognise any qualification to which this course may lead. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
