Research Workshops | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Research Workshops Accounting Research Workshop Applied Economics Workshop Applied Theory Workshop Banking Workshop Behavioral Economics Seminar Behavioral Science Workshop Econometrics and Statistics Colloquium Finance Workshop Finance Lunch Seminar Workshop in Macro/International Economics Marketing Research Workshop Microeconomics Workshop Money and Banking Workshop in Operations/Management Science Workshop in Organizations and Markets HomeFaculty and InsightsResearch Workshops Accounting Research Workshop Applied Economics Workshop Applied Theory Workshop Banking Workshop Behavioral Economics Seminar Behavioral Science Workshop Econometrics and Statistics Colloquium Finance Workshop Finance Lunch Seminar Workshop in Macro/International Economics Marketing Research Workshop Microeconomics Workshop Money and Banking Workshop in Operations/Management Science Workshop in Organizations and Markets Faculty and Insights Research Workshops At Chicago Booth, we believe in fostering a collaborative community that is committed to intellectual curiosity and pushing ideas and people to be their best. Our research workshops embody that commitment to intellectual and academic rigor. The research workshops in each of our academic areas provide a forum for faculty members, PhD students, and invited guests to present, discuss, and debate new research. Learn more about each of them below. Accounting Research Workshop Discussions cover papers dealing with current topics in accounting research, which are prepared for the workshop by faculty, students, and invited guests. Accounting Research Workshop Applied Economics Workshop New applied research in microeconomics and related fields is presented by Booth faculty, PhD students, and invited speakers. Applied Economics Workshop Applied Theory Workshop The Workshop on Applied Theory meets jointly with the Workshop in Economic Theory on Tuesdays from 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. Applied Theory Workshop Banking Workshop In this workshop, faculty and invited speakers present new research on the economics of financial institutions. Banking Workshop Behavioral Science Workshop This workshop invites guests, faculty, and students to present current research in decision-making and judgment. Behavioral Science Workshop Econometrics and Statistics Colloquium Speakers present their research, with an emphasis on methods and applications relating to business and economic problems. Econometrics and Statistics Colloquium Finance Workshop In this workshop, advanced topics in finance are discussed in detail and finance research topics are presented. Finance Workshop Finance Lunch Seminar In this workshop series, faculty and PhD students from the University of Chicago and other universities present their finance research. Finance Lunch Seminar Workshop in Macro/International Economics The majority of the talks in this workshop are given by internal speakers presenting works in progress, with some talks reserved for external speakers. Workshop in Macro/International Economics Marketing Research Workshop All are welcome in this workshop, where faculty, PhD students, and outside speakers from around the world present their research. Marketing Research Workshop Microeconomics Workshop Faculty present works in progress, especially early-stage work, at this internal lunchtime workshop. Microeconomics Workshop Money and Banking Workshop This workshop is organized jointly between the Kenneth C. Griffin Department of Economics and Booth. The majority of the talks are given by external speakers presenting works in progress. Some talks are reserved for internal speakers. Money and Banking Workshop Workshop in Operations/Management Science Faculty, students, and visitors present papers on current research. Students are encouraged to discuss their work before and after their formal proposal presentation. Workshop in Operations/Management Science Workshop in Organizations and Markets In this workshop, faculty and invited speakers present recent research on the structure of competition within and between organizations. Workshop in Organizations and Markets The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
