Academic Areas | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Academic Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Entrepreneurship Finance Macroeconomics Marketing Microeconomics Operations Management Organizations and Markets Strategy and Leadership HomeFaculty and InsightsAcademic Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Entrepreneurship Finance Macroeconomics Marketing Microeconomics Operations Management Organizations and Markets Strategy and Leadership Faculty and Insights Academic Areas At Chicago Booth, our pathbreaking faculty conduct research and teach within these academic areas. Chicago Booth is home to a world-class set of faculty whose research is impacting the world in profound and diverse ways. Our faculty are organized into 11 academic areas. Each academic area provides faculty with a network of support to brainstorm, conduct, and publish groundbreaking research in their fieldfrom Nobel Prize-winning work bridging the gap between economics and psychology, to research that shines a light on the operational issues in the criminal justice system. We embrace academic interdisciplinarity at Booth. Faculty have the complete freedom to work across academic areas to generate game-changing insights. Learn more about the research areas at Chicago Booth. Accounting The accounting faculty at Chicago Booth produce groundbreaking research across the accounting spectrum. Accounting Behavioral Science The behavioral science faculty remain at the vanguard of understanding judgment and decision-making. Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics In this area, faculty teach students how to leverage data in order to analyze and solve business and economic problems. Econometrics and Statistics Entrepreneurship This academic area is led by world-class facultyboth researchers and practitionerswho make Booth the destination for entrepreneurship education and research. Entrepreneurship Finance Decade after decade, our faculty have remained on the cutting edge of every aspect of financefrom corporate finance to investment banking. Finance Macroeconomics Our faculty in this area are generating insights into todays most critical issues, including monetary policy and how economic agents cope with change. Macroeconomics Marketing In one of the most interdisciplinary-rich areas at Booth, our faculty study and teach the quantitative and qualitative areas of marketing. Marketing Microeconomics Booths microeconomics faculty are shaping the understanding of modern economic theory and practice with an enduring global impact. Microeconomics Operations Management Our operations management faculty are generating research insights across areasfrom health-care analytics to the criminal justice system. Operations Management Organizations and Markets Our faculty in this area are creating knowledge with enduring impact, includingexamining how social networks create competitive advantage. Organizations and Markets Strategy and Leadership At Booth, a key component of our mission is to educate current and future leaders. See how our faculty are helping to fulfill the promise of a Booth education. Strategy and Leadership The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
