Research Staff Program | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Research Staff Program Current Staff Join Our Team HomeFaculty and InsightsResearch Staff Program Current Staff Join Our Team Chicago Booth Research Staff Program This program is an unparalleled opportunity for researchers with undergraduate or graduate experience to support award-winning faculty research. In the Chicago Booth Research Staff Program, research professionals (RPs) and principal researchers (PRs) typically spend two to three years gaining firsthand experience with the research process, working closely with their faculty supervisor. Research professionals have gone on to top PhD programs in economics and other social sciences, including programs at MIT, Harvard, Stanford, Princeton, Wharton, Berkeley, and UChicago. Principal researchers have entered the academic job market or taken industry positions. Research staff build invaluable and collaborative relationships with Booth faculty and fellow RPs and PRs by engaging in UChicagos rigorous intellectual environment. While at Booth, research staff hone their skill sets and engage in a bevy of programsfrom coding workshops to writing seminarsthat prepare them to undertake independent research. Join Our Team Interested in learning more about the Chicago Booth Research Staff Program? Join our mailing list or contact us by email. Join Mailing List Join Mailing List Join Our Team Life at Booth Workshops In addition to attending faculty research workshops and staff development sessions, Booth research staff have the opportunity throughout the academic year to participate in workshops tailored to research staff. Such workshops include: A three-day coding workshop covering best practices related to version control and code documentation. An academic writing workshop tailored to economics and covering key points in developing compelling arguments and convincing others. A workshop where current RPs and PRs present their own work and/or new techniques and best practices for tackling research. Orientations to multiple research resources at Booth and the larger university, including the library as well as Booths and the Research Computing Centers computing clusters. Diversity at Booth Research staff come from a wide array of locations, disciplines, and institutions and have diverse backgrounds and varied identities. We believe a diversity of perspective deepens intellectual pursuits, and we are dedicated to creating an environment where people of different backgrounds feel valued and where their ideas and contributions can flourish. We promise to remain vigilant and dedicated, ceaselessly working to identify and remove barriers to full participation. As part of our commitment to diversity, we offer a slate of workshops covering topics related to diversity, equity, and inclusion each academic year. These include sessions dedicated to understanding unconscious bias and bystander intervention as well as lunch-and-learns led by Chicago Booth faculty members. As a part of the universitys commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, there are many campus-wide resources, events, and centers related to these topics, including: University of Chicago Diversity & Inclusion initiative D+I Studio Resource groups Disability Services Diversity and inclusion events Center for Identity and Inclusion Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture Center for the Study of Gender and Sexuality Office of Civic Engagement Equal Opportunity Programs Benefits and Opportunities As staff members of the University of Chicago, research staff receive a wide array of benefits. These include tuition reimbursement and continuing education opportunities, a competitive vacation and sick time package, health care, and perks and discounts throughout Hyde Park and Chicago. The Neighborhood Many research staff choose to live near campus in Hyde Park, a unique and historic neighborhood along the shore of Lake Michigan. You can learn more about Hyde Park and its housing options here. Current Staff Learn more about the research professionals and principal professionals at Booth. Current Staff Join Our Team Learn more about our open research professional and principal researcher positions. Join Our Team The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
