Linus Schrage | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Emeriti Faculty Robert Aliber Gary D. Eppen John Gould Robert S. Hamada Milton Harris Joshua Klayman Richard Leftwich Albert Madansky Sam Peltzman Linus Schrage George Tiao Roman Weil Willard Zangwill Linus Schrage HomeFaculty and InsightsEmeriti FacultyLinus Schrage Robert Aliber Gary D. Eppen John Gould Robert S. Hamada Milton Harris Joshua Klayman Richard Leftwich Albert Madansky Sam Peltzman George Tiao Roman Weil Willard Zangwill Linus Schrage Professor Emeritus of Operations Research and Operations Management Biography Awards And Honors Selected Publications In The News Social Media Course Schedule Executive Education Schedule Chicago Booth Review Additional Information Biography Linus Schrage is emeritus professor of operations management at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. He received his PhD in operations research and industrial engineering from Cornell University in 1966. He previously taught at Stanford University and has been a visiting professor or lecturer at UCLA, Pontificia Universidade Catolica do Rio de Janeiro, and Universite Catholique de Louvain, Belgium. He also worked at NASA. Schrage's research has ranged over supply chain management, inventory management, operations research, optimization, auctions, logistics, production and scheduling theory, simulation, queueing theory, planning under uncertainty, applied probability and statistics, and computer science. He is a fellow of INFORMS Society (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences), as well as an MSOM Distinguished Fellow (Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Group). Since 1980, he has been well known for his work with Kevin Cunningham in developing the LINDO, LINGO, and WhatsBest! optimization software. Schrage's current work is on the use of optimization in planning models in business. The 2012 INFORMS Impact Prize for work on Algebraic Modeling Languages was awarded to Schrage and his former student Kevin Cunningham for their work on the LINGO modeling language. This prize is awarded biannually to an individual or team for contributions that have had widespread impact in the practice of operations research.Schrage and Cunningham also received the PC Magazine annual Award for Technical Excellence for the What'sBest! Spreadsheet Optimizer in 1986. Awards And Honors 2009 Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Best Paper Award with co-authors Nicole DeHoratius and Adam J. Mersereau for the paper Retail Inventory Management When Records Are Inaccurate. July 1997, Winner of Association of the European Operational Research Societies (EURO) Prize for Best Applied Paper of the Year, Presented at Joint International EURO XV/INFORMS XXXIV Meeting in Barcelona, Spain, with Zeger Degraeve. November 1997, Chairmans Award for the Best Contributed Paper in Application INFORMS Dallas Meeting, for the paper: A Tire Production Scheduling System for Bridgestone-Firestone Off-the-Road, with Zeger Degraeve. Selected Publications Publications "Application of the Branch and Bound Technique to Some Flow Shop Scheduling Problems," Operations Research (May June 1965), with E. J. Ignall. "The Queue M/G/1 with the Shortest Remaining Processing Time Discipline," Operations Research (July August 1966), with L. W. Miller. "The Queue M/G/1 with Feedback to Lower Priority Queues," Management Science (March 1967). "A Proof of the Optimality of the Shortest Remaining Processing Time Discipline," Operations Research (May June 1968). "Analysis and Optimization of a Queueing Model of a Real Time Computer Control System," IEEE Computer Group Transactions (November 1969). "A Pilot Study and Simulation Model of the Court Jury System," Washington University Law Quarterly (Spring 1970), with Fred Merrill. "Joint Pricing and Inventory Decisions for Stable Priced Items," Management Science (March 1973), with H. Kunreuther. "Optimal and Near Optimal Ordering Policies for Multi Echelon Production/Inventory Assembly Systems," Management Science (July 1975), with L. Schwarz. "The Apportionment Problem and the European Parliament," European Economic Review, 9 (1977), pp. 247 263, with H. Theil. "A More Portable FORTRAN Random Number Generator," Trans. on Math Software, (June 1979). "Centralized Ordering Policies in a Multiwarehouse System with Lead Times and Random Demand" in Multi Level Production/Inventory Control Systems: Theory and Practice, North Holland (1981) with Gary Eppen. "A Mixed Integer Programming Model for Evaluating Distribution Configurations in the Steel Industry," Computers & Operations Research, 13, no. 5 (1986) with Gary Eppen and R. Kipp Martin. "A Scenario Approach to Capacity Planning," Operations Research, 37, no. 4 (1989) with Gary Eppen and R. Kipp Martin. "An Auction Method for Course Registration", Interfaces, 23, no. 5 (1993) with R. L. Graves and J. Sankaran. "Maximum Likelihood Genetic Sequence Reconstruction from Oligo Content", Networks, vol. 24, pp. 297-302 (1994) with J. Hagstrom, R. Hagstrom, R. Overbeek, M. Price. "Stochastic Option Bundling and Bundle Pricing"(1996) in Automobilmarktforschung, with R. Fuerderer and A. Huchzermeier, published by Verlag Vahlen, Munchen. "HOP: A Software Tool for Production Scheduling at Bridgestone/Firestone Off-the-Road", European Journal of Operational Research, (October 1998), vol. 110, no. 2, pp. 188-198, with Z. Degraeve. "A New Paradigm for Measuring Military Readiness", Military Operations Research (Dec. 1998), vol. 3, no. 5, with J. F. Raffensperger. Order Allocation for Stock Cutting in the Paper Industry, Operations Research, March-April 2002, vol. 50, no. 2., with Syam Menon. Implementation and Testing of a Branch-and-Bound Based Method for Deterministic Global Optimization: Operations Research Applications, in Frontiers in Global Optimization (Nonconvex Optimization and Its Applications), ed. by C. Floudas and P. Pardalos, Kluwer (2003), pp. 145-164, with C. Gau. Scheduling Training for a Tank Battalion: How to Measure Readiness, Computers and Operations Research, with F. Raffensperger, 2007. Retail Inventory Management when Records are Inaccurate, Manufacturing & Service Operations Management (MSOM), with N. DeHoratius and A. Mersereau, November, 2008. Conditions that Cause Risk Pooling to Increase Inventory, European Journal of Operations Research, with Hongsuk Yang, 2008. Challenges in Adding a Stochastic Programming/Scenario Planning Capability to a General Purpose Optimization Modeling System, with Kevin Cunningham, chapter 8 in A Long View of Research and Practice in Operations Research and Management Science, ed. by M. Sodhi and C. Tang, Springer, 2010. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
