Apply to Faculty Positions | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business This website uses cookies to ensure the best user experience. Privacy & Cookies Notice Accept Cookies Manage My Cookies Manage Cookie Preferences Accept All Cookies Reject All Cookies NECESSARY COOKIES These cookies are essential to enable the services to provide the requested feature, such as remembering you have logged in. ALWAYS ACTIVE Accept | Reject PERFORMANCE AND ANALYTIC COOKIES These cookies are used to collect information on how users interact with Chicago Booth websites allowing us to improve the user experience and optimize our site where needed based on these interactions. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. FUNCTIONAL COOKIES These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by third-party providers whose services we have added to our pages or by us. TARGETING OR ADVERTISING COOKIES These cookies collect information about your browsing habits to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. The cookies will remember the website you have visited, and this information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers. SOCIAL MEDIA COOKIES These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or like button on our websites, or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities. Confirm My Selections Coronavirus Updates Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Class Profile Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Skip to main content The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Apply to Faculty Positions Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Apply to Faculty Positions HomeFaculty and InsightsApply to Faculty Positions Faculty Directory Emeriti Faculty Academic Areas Nobel Laureates Research Workshops Research Centers Booth Academic Journals Research Staff Program Faculty and Insights Faculty Jobs at Booth At Chicago Booth, our strongest asset is our facultya diverse and dedicated group of scholars who are educating the best leaders in the world. Learn more about applying to our open university faculty positions and joining the world-renowned faculty at Booth. Why Work at Booth? Whether youre a seasoned scholar, a recent PhD graduate, or someone who is looking for a part-time adjunct faculty position, there is no better business school in the world to work at than Booth. Heres why: Interdisciplinarity Unlike most other business schools, we encourage our faculty to work across disciplines. This creates cutting-edge research with depth, reach, and impact. Academic Freedom Our faculty members have freedom: the freedom to pursue inquiry wherever it leads, and the freedom to develop new, innovative courses. Intellectual Inquiry and Academic Rigor At Booth, we believe in answering questions and questioning answers. Our faculty members push each other to produce research of the highest quality. What We Look For At Booth, we seek to hire faculty members who are committed to the following: Conducting High-Quality Research Booth is the best academic business school in the world. This is because of our award-winning faculty, whose ideas and thought leadership are creating knowledge with enduring impact. Tenured and tenure-track faculty are expected to conduct original research of the highest quality. Teaching Effectively The faculty at Booth are more than scholars of the highest caliber. They are also mentors and teachers committed to the success of every student. Advancing Our Core Mission At Booth, our core mission is to create knowledge with enduring impact, and to educate current and future leaders. Everything we do aims to fulfill this mission. Contributing to Our Academic Environment Whether its through advising a PhD candidate, joining a committee, or contributing to one of our 13 research centers, our faculty members are expected to participate in and contribute to the schools collaborative and intellectually active academic environment. Other Faculty Openings Assistant/Associate Professor of Accounting Assistant/Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Assistant/Associate Professor of Econometrics/Statistics Assistant/Associate Professor of Economics (Macroeconomics) Assistant/Associate Professor of Economics (Microeconomics) Assistant/Associate Professor of Finance Assistant/Associate Professor of Marketing Assistant/Associate Professor of Operations Management Clinical Associate Professor of Leadership Adjunct Faculty Adjunct Faculty, All Ranks 2021-22 Equal Employment Opportunity Statement We seek a diverse pool of applicants who wish to join an academic community that places the highest value on rigorous inquiry and encourages diverse perspectives, experiences, groups of individuals, and ideas to inform and stimulate intellectual challenge, engagement, and exchange. The Universitys Statements on Diversity are at https://provost.uchicago.edu/statements-diversity. The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national or ethnic origin, age, status as an individual with a disability, protected veteran status, genetic information, or other protected classes under the law. For additional information please see the University's Notice of Nondiscrimination. Job seekers in need of a reasonable accommodation to complete the application process should call 773.702.1032 or email equalopportunity@uchicago.edu with their request. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Insights Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth Media Relations Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042021 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
