Kwang Cheol Jeong - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Kwang Cheol Jeong Associate ProfessorMicrobiology, Food Safety In March of 2011, Dr. Kwang Cheol Jeong joined the faculty of the University of Florida as an assistant professor with a joint appointment in the Department of Animal Sciences and the Emerging Pathogens Institute.Dr. Jeong began his scientific career in Korea as a molecular microbiologist focused on the identification of virulence factors and understanding of the gene regulation mechanisms of Vibrio vulnificus. During his doctoral training at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, he continued to explore bacterial pathogenesis by examining the mechanisms of acid tolerance and survival of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in the host. After obtaining his Ph.D., Dr. Jeong took a postdoctoral position at the Washington University Medical School in St. Louis to characterize the virulence traits of Legionella pneumophila, an intracellular pathogen that causes a pneumonia-like illness called Legionnaires disease. His research focused on the characterization of the Legionella type IV secretion system (T4SS) and effector proteins that were secreted into the host cells via the T4SS. Programs Research Research Summary: Dr. K. C. Jeongs ultimate research goal is to intervene pathogens for the benefit of animals and humans. To achieve this goal, his research areas are not only in basic sciences but also in applied sciences. Antimicrobial resistance microorganisms and Shiga-toxin producing E. coli (STEC) are his primary target research areas. The primary goal of basic science research is to understand molecular mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance, colonization, host-microbe interactions, and survival of bacterial pathogens in hosts. Identification of genetic traits responsible for the survival of pathogens in the host and characterization of genes and proteins will provide insights for the development of intervention technologies. Dr. Jeongs repertoire of knowledge in molecular biology, biochemistry, cell biology, and genetic techniques will be applicable to various aspects of this research. Developing intervention technologies to fight against pathogens using micro and nanoparticles is another key part of his research program. He developed chitosan microparticles as an alternative antimicrobial agent and his research has focused on the increment of efficacy in chitosan microparticles targeting a broad spectrum of pathogens, including antimicrobial resistant microorganisms. Furthermore, development of nanoparticles with high specificity against pathogens is ongoing interest. Currently, Dr. Jeongs research program has focused on following topics. Identify and understand bacterial effector proteins that cause disease in hosts Whole genomic DNA analysis to identify genes that are required for survival and persistence in hosts and environments Determine host factors that modulate the survival of pathogens in infection Antimicrobial resistance: prevalence, mechanisms antimicrobial resistance development, transmission Development of mitigation strategies for antimicrobial resistance Shiga toxin-producing bacteria: prevalence, transmission, persistence, and factors that affect prevalence of STEC Microbial risk assessments The KC Jeong Lab Dr. Jeong's research goals are to provide solutions for animal and human health by understanding host-pathogen interactions at the molecular level. Developing methods to prevent and cure diseases caused by pathogens. Teaching ANS 6288-Experimental Techniques and Processing Meat Experimental design, analytical procedures; techniques; carcass measurements and analyses as related to livestock production and meats studies. Offered spring term in even-numbered years. ANS 6714 Microbial Physiology Insights into microbial pathogenesis, microbial genetics, and molecular microbiology with particular reference to livestock species. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-294-5376 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611 kcjeong@ufl.eduEmerging Pathogens Institute Personal Page Education Education: 2004, Ph. D. University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Food Science (with Food Safety option), Department of Bacteriology, Madison, Wisconsin 1998, M. S. Chonnam National University, Department of Food Science and Technology, Gwangju, Korea 1996, B. S. Chonnam National University, Department of Food Science and Technology, Gwangju, Korea Academic Positions Since Final Degree: April, 2011-Present - AssociateProfessor of Food Safety, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL July 2010 - March 2011 - Postdoctoral Research Associate, Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison June 2005 - June 2010 - Postdoctoral Research Associate, Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University in St. Louis, School of Medicine January 2005-May 2011 - Postdoctoral Research Associate, Food Research Institute, University of Wisconsin-Madison Publications Google Scholar 2018 Publications: Fan, Peixin, C. Nelson, M. Elzo, and K.C. Jeong. 2018. Animal breed composition shapes the gut microbiota, and its effects on the host metabolic and immunological status. Under review. Fan, Peixin, C. Nelson, M. Elzo, and K.C. Jeong. 2018. Meconium microbiota varies with birthweight and influences the gut microbiota establishment during early stage of life. Under review. Alejandro Garrido-Maestu, Zhengxin Ma, Sae-Yeol-Rim Paik, Nusheng Chen, Sanghoon Ko, Zhaohui Tong, K.C. Jeong. 2018. Engineering of Chitosan-derived nanoparticles to enhance antimicrobial activity against foodborne pathogen Escherichia coli O157:H7. Carbohydrate Polymers. 197:623-630 Markland, S., Thomas A. Weppelmann, Zhengxin Ma, Shinyoung Lee, Raies A. Mir, Lin Teng, Amber Ginn, Choonghee Lee, Maria Ukhanova, Sebastian Galindo, Chad Carr, Nicolas DiLorenzo, SooHyoun Ahn, Jae Hyung Mah, Volkar Mai, Mobley Ray, J Glenn Morris, and K.C. Jeong. 2018. High Prevalence of Cefotaxime Resistant Bacteria in grazing Beef Cattle: A Cross Sectional Study. Frontiers in Microbiol. Under review. Mir, R, T.A. Weppelmann, L. Teng, A. Kirpich, M.A. Elzo, J.D. Driver, and K.C. Jeong. 2018. Colonization Dynamics of Cefotaxime Resistant Bacteria in Beef Cattle Raised Without Cephalosporin Antibiotics. Frontiers in Microbiol. 9:1-12 Jeong, K.C. J. Gyore, L. Teng, D. Ghosal, G.J. Jensen, J.P. Vogel. 2018. Polar targeting and assembly of the Legionella Dot/Icm type IV secretion system (T4SS) by T6SS-related components. bioRxiv. doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/315721 Ghosal, D. Yi-Wei Chang, K.C. Jeong, J.P. Vogel, G. Jensen. 2018. Molecular architecture of the Legionella Dot/Icm type IV secretion system. bioRxiv. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/312009 Belli, A.L., A. Veronese, R. Moreira, K. Flanagan, M. Ballou, J. Clapper, J. Driver, C. Nelson, Corwin; K.C. Jeong, R. Ricardo. 2018. Effects of treatment of pre-weaned dairy calves with recombinant bovine somatotropin on immune responses and somatotropic axis. J. Dairy Sci. 101:1-14 Rothrock, M., Peixin Fan, K.C. Jeong, Sun Ae Kim, Steven Ricke, and Si Hong Park. 2018. Genome sequences of a Listeria monocytogenes strain isolated from pastured flock poultry farm system. genomeA. 6(10). E00171-18. doi: 10.1128/genomeA.00171-18. Van Bruggen, AHC. M.M. He, K. Shin, V. Mai, K.C. Jeong, M.R. Finckh, J. G. Morris. 2018. Environmental and health effects of the herbicide glyphosate. Science of The Total Environment. 616:255-268. Lee, SY. M.J. Kim, H.J. Kim, K.C. Jeong, H.Y. Kim. 2018. Simultaneous detection of four foodborne viruses in food samples using a one-step multiplex PCR. J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1710.10008. Ogunade IM, Jiang Y, Pech Cervantes AA, Kim DH, Oliveira AS, Vyas D, Weinberg ZG, Jeong KC, Adesogan AT. 2018. Bacterial diversity and composition of alfalfa silage as analyzed by Illumina MiSeq sequencing: Effects of Escherichia coli O157:H7 and silage additives. J. Dairy Sci. doi: 10.3168/jds.2017-12876.10. Ma, Z.X., A. Garrido-Maestu, C. Lee, J. Chon, D. Jeong, Y. Yue, K. Sung, Y. Park, and K.C. Jeong. 2018. Comprehensive in vitro and in vivo evaluation of chitosan microparticles for risk assessments using epithelial cells and Caenorhabditis elegans. Hazardous Materials. J. Hazardous Materials. 341:248-256. Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships Associate Faculty Member in Faculty of 1000 (2010 present) Editorial board member of Journal of bacteriology and parasitology Editorial board member of Journal of Agricultural Chemistry and Environment Member of American Society for Microbiology Member of International Association for Food Protection Honors Member of Sigma Xi First place, Poster competition, Annual meeting of Food Research Institute, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI. 2003. Berg/Morse Fellowship Award, Washington University in St. Louis, School of Medicine. 2007 Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Mon, 10 Jun 2019 11:02:47 EDT
