Jason M Scheffler - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr. Jason M. Scheffler Research Assistant Professor Meat Science and Muscle Biology Dr. Jason M. Scheffler conducts both applied and basic research with impact on animal growth efficiency and meat quality. Recent efforts have been directed at identifying the contribution of connective tissue to beef tenderness. In addition to his research responsibilities. Dr. Scheffler serves as an instructor for Introduction to Animal Science as well as contributing to the extension mission through HACCP training courses and contributing to short courses pertaining to meat quality and safety. Programs Research Research Summary Dr Scheffler currently conducts both applied and basic research impacting animal growth efficiency and meat quality. In particular, he has specific interests in cell signaling pathways regulating muscle atrophy and hypertrophy and nutritional effects on muscle growth and body composition. He uses a multi-faceted approach with cattle, pig, rodent, and cell culture models. Recent efforts have focused on connective tissue contributions to beef tenderness. The long-term goal is to identify management practices or intervention strategies that reduce the cost of meat production while maintaining or improving the quality of the end product. Teaching Muscle Physiology and Food Safety Dr Scheffler is the lead instructor for Spring semester ANS 3006C Introduction to Animal Science and ANS 3006, the online version of Intro for off campus students. In addition, he is a co-instructor for ANS 6636 Meat Technology and ALS 4932 HACCP systems. Courses Taught ALS 4932 HACCP Systems, Spring 2cr ANS 3006C Introduction to Animal Science, Spring 4cr ANS 6705 Muscle Physiology, Spring 1cr ANS 6636 Meat Technology, Fall 3cr Extension Muscle Biology and Food Safety Dr Schefflers extension program has a primary focus of improving the production, utilization, value, and sustainability of muscle foods. He serves as an instructor at various meat short courses and for the HACCP training program. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-392-9155 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611jmscheff@ufl.edu Education Education May 2007; Ph.D., Animal Science, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE August 2002; M.S. Animal Science (Meat Science and Muscle Biology), Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI May 2000; B.S. Agriculture, Food and Environmental Science, (Major-Biotechnology, Minors- Biology, Chemistry, Food Science), University of Wisconsin-River Falls, River Falls, WI Academic Positions Since Final Degree 2014-Present; Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville. 2008 - 2014; Assistant Professor, Animal and Poultry Sciences, Virginia Tech University, Blacksburg, VA Publications Google Scholar Publications Professional Service and Awards Awards, Honors, and Recognitions Maude Hammond Fling Fellowship, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2005, Awarded to 10 graduate students in the top 3% University-wide John Hallman Memorial Teaching Award, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2005 Bukey Memorial Fellowship, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2004 Milton E. Mohr Fellowship, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2004 Milton E. Mohr Biotechnology Fellowship, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2003 Professional Memberships American Society of Animal Science American Meat Science Association International Congress of Meat Science and Technology American Physiology Society Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Mon, 10 Jun 2019 11:06:02 EDT
