Chad Carr - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr. Chad Carr Associate Professor State Extension Meat Specialist Chad Carr grew up in Bethpage, TN, 30 miles north of Nashville on a diversified livestock operation which included purebred Hampshire hogs and commercial beef cattle production. Chad received his Bachelors and Masters degrees in Animal Science at Oklahoma State University and his Ph.D. in Animal Science at the University of Missouri, with both advanced degrees having specialization in the discipline of meat science. Chad, his wife Cathy and daughter Ella live in Micanopy. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Carrs role as State Meat Extension Specialist includes developing and implementing extension education to ensure the safety and wholesomeness of muscle foods and to improve the production, utilization, value, and sustainability of muscle foods. Additionally, he develops and administers youth programming in meat-animal agriculture, to develop responsible and productive youth to secure the future of our industry. The primary goal of his research program is to produce well-trained graduate students who can go on to be leaders in our industry or academia. His primary research interest is to take questions directly from industry professionals and apply them in a controlled research setting.The focus of Dr. Carr's research program has been to determine the impact of the utilization of low cost by-product feedstuffs on growth and carcass merit of red meat animals and determine antemortem/pre-harvest management strategies to improve red meat animal well-being and value Teaching Dr. Carr's teaching role includes instructing ANS 2002 The Meat We Eat in the spring and fall semester, co-instructing ANS 3613L Live Animal and Carcass Evaluation in the spring semester, coordinating or instructing ANS 4615 Meat Selection and Grading in the fall semester, and coordinating ANS 4604C Live Animal Evaluation in the fall semester. Teaching responsibilities also include coordinating both the Intercollegiate Meat Judging Team, the Intercollegiate Livestock Judging Team, the Intercollegiate Meat Animal Evaluation Team, and mentoring graduate students. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-392-2454 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611chadcarr@ufl.edu Education Education: May, 2006 Ph.D., Animal Science-Emphasis Meat Science, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO August, 2004M.S., Animal Science-Emphasis Meat Science, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK May, 2001B.S., Animal Science, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2007 - PresentAssistant Professor , University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 1993 - 1999Post-Doctoral Teaching Associate, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO Publications Publications (181KB .pdf) Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships American Society of Animal Science Intercollegiate Meat Judging Coaches Association American Meat Science Association National Cattlemens Beef Association Gamma Sigma Delta Florida Cattlemens Association Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Mon, 10 Jun 2019 13:37:32 EDT
