Samantha Brooks - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr. Samantha A. Brooks Associate Professor, Equine Physiology A lifelong horse woman, Dr. Samantha Brooks was diverted from vet school by a budding passion for equine research. Following a Bachelor of Science degree in Agricultural Biotechnology, Dr. Brooks remained at the University of Kentucky to study at the Gluck Equine Research Center. While there she earned her Ph.D. in Veterinary Science, specializing in Equine Genetics under the mentorship of Dr. Ernest Bailey. Following her Ph.D. she was awarded the Paul Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship to study the expression of inflammatory genes in horses affected with laminitis. As an assistant professor at Cornell University she was responsible for the Equine Biology and Management course for six years. Now at the University of Florida, her research program explores a variety of topics relevant to horse health ranging from gene expression studies to mapping of genetic disorders in the horse. Previously her research group discovered genetic mutations and markers for coat colors, height, sarcoid tumors and two neurological conditions. Ongoing work targets variation in gait, susceptibility to infectious disease, metabolic syndrome and skeletal defects using genome wide association, genome re-sequencing and transcriptomics. Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2018-Present; Associate Professor, Equine Physiology, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville. 2014-2018; Assistant Professor, Equine Physiology, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville. 2009-2013; Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 2006-2008; Teaching Assistant, University Honors Program, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 2006-2008; Paul Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship, Gluck Equine Research Center, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY Programs Research Research Summary A lifelong horse woman, Dr. Samantha Brooks was diverted from vet school by a budding passion for equine research. Following a Bachelor of Science degree in Agricultural Biotechnology, Dr. Brooks remained at the University of Kentucky to study at the Gluck Equine Research Center. While there she earned her PhD in Veterinary Science, specializing in Equine Genetics under the mentorship of Dr. Ernest Bailey. Following her PhD she was awarded the Paul Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship to study the expression of inflammatory genes in horses affected with laminitis. At Cornell University she was responsible for the Equine Biology and Management course for six years. Her research program explores a variety of topics relevant to horse health ranging from gene expression studies to mapping of genetic disorders in the horse. Previously her research group discovered genetic mutations and markers for coat colors, height, sarcoid tumors and two neurological conditions. Ongoing work targets variation in gait, susceptibility to infectious disease, metabolic syndrome and skeletal defects using genome wide association, genome re-sequencing and transcriptomics. Lab Research The horse occupies a unique place in our global culture and presents a fascinating opportunity for study. Having catalyzed the rise and fall of civilizations for thousands of years, the horse is now in a process of transition. More ... (.pdf 180KB) Extension Horse Genetics Online Extension Course Contact Bldg 459, Shealy Drive PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 Phone: (352) 392-1918 Fax: (352) 392-9059samantha.brooks@ufl.eduBrooks' Equine Genetics Lab Education Education: 2001; B.S., Agricultural Biotechnology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 2006; Ph.D., Veterinary Science, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY Publications Google Scholar Publications (.pdf 89KB) Book Chapters BROOKS, S.A. and Bellone, R. R. (2013). Chapter 9: Coat color genomics. In: Equine Genomics, CHOWDHARY, B. P. (ed.) First ed.: Wiley-Blackwell, Hoboken, NJ. Book Bailey, E. and BROOKS, S.A. 2013. Horse Genetics, Second ed.: CABI Int., Oxfordshire, UK. Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships American Society of Animal Science Equine Science Society National Association of Equine Affiliated Academics International Society of Animal Genetics Honors Paul Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship, award for research in gene expression and laminitis, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Tue, 30 Jul 2019 16:09:33 EDT
