Feng Yue - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr. Feng Yue AssistantProfessor Animal Physiology Dr. Yue obtained his B.S. in Biological Sciences from Ludong University in China, and his Ph.D. in Marine Biology from University of Chinese Academy of Sciences studying immune cell development. Following his Ph.D. he received his postdoctoral training in the field of skeletal muscle and adipose development at Purdue University and was promoted as Research Associate Scientist uponbeing awarded adevelopment grant from the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Dr. Yue holds research and teaching appointments in the UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences. He specializes in animal physiology with research program to investigate the fundamental mechanisms that control development and growth of skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, particularly focusing on stem cell fate and function and cellular metabolism. His teaching interests include animal growth and development, physiology and stem cell biology. Academic Positions Since Final Degree: August 2021-present; Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL November 2017 August 2021; Research Associate Scientist, Department of Animal Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN November 2013 October 2017; Postdoctoral research associate, Department of Animal Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN Programs Research The research in Dr. Yues lab aims to uncover the fundamental mechanisms that control development and growth of skeletal muscle and adipose tissue. In particular, his research programs mainly focus to understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the fate choice and behavior of muscle stem cell and adipocyte in physiological and disease conditions, including muscular dystrophy, obesity and aging. Utilizing versatile genetic mice and large domestic animals as models, Dr. Yues lab brings together cutting-edge single-cell omics, state-of-the-art imaging and stem cell technologies in combining a variety of biochemical and biophysical approaches to address significant and fundamental questions in the field of skeletal muscle biology and adipose metabolism. The goal of his research is to provide knowledge for developing strategies to improve human health and agricultural animal production. The ongoing research projects of Dr. Yues lab are outlined into following topics. Molecular control of muscle stem cell fate and function Nutritional/metabolic regulation of muscle development and growth Molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying intramuscular adipogenesis Pathogenesis and therapy of neuromuscular diseases Teaching Contact Bldg 459, Shealy Drive PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611Phone: (352) 392-2993 Fax: (352) 392-5595fengyue@ufl.edu Yue Laboratory: Stem Cell - Metabolism - Health & Disease Education Education: July 2013; Ph.D. Field: Developmental Immunology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China June 2010; M.S. Field: Animal Physiology, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, China June 2007; B.S. Biological Sciences, Ludong University, Yantai, China Publications Google Scholar Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships American Society of Gene & Cell Therapy Honors and Recognition 2017;Seeds for Success Award, Purdue University, USA 2017; Postdoc Travel Award, Purdue University, USA 2016; Postdoc Travel Award, Purdue University, USA 2015; Postdoc Challenge Award, Purdue University, USA 2015; Poster Award in Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases 1th Annual Symposium, Indiana University School of Medicine, USA (Top1) 2014; Excellent Scholarships of Chinese Academy of Sciences, China Scientific Services 2020 to present; Research Reviewer for Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology 2020 to present; Research Reviewer for Frontiers in Genetics 2017 to present; Invited Reviewer for The FASEB Journal 2017 to present; Invited Reviewer for Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Thu, 23 Sep 2021 10:07:32 EDT
