John Driver - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr. John P. Driver Associate Professor Immunologist Dr. John Driver completed his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees at the University of Pretoria in South Africa. He subsequently earned his Ph.D. in Animal Nutrition from the University of Georgia, specializing in Poultry Nutrition under the mentorship of Dr. Gene Pesti. Following his Ph.D. he was awarded a Juvenile Diabetes Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship and then Advanced Postdoctoral Fellowship to study the genetics of Type-1 diabetes at The Jackson Laboratory under the mentorship of David Serreze. As an associate professor at University of Florida, his research program focused on swine immunology, infectious disease, and vaccinology. A significant part of his program is devoted to mouse immunology and genetics focused on using mouse models to study autoimmune diseases. Programs Research Research: Area of Speciality; Swine Immunology, Infectious Disease, and Vaccinology Dr. Driver specializes in the areas of swine immunology, infectious disease, and vaccinology. He is also an expert in mouse immunology and genetics focused on using mouse models to study autoimmune diseases. His program is divided into two main research areas. The first involves harnessing an important immune cell population called natural killer T (NKT) cells for treating and preventing infectious diseases in swine with a view to improving the health of both pigs as well as people. Dr Driver's other area of research is in the field of autoimmune type-1 diabetes (T1D), focused on blocking the effector function of pathogenic immune cells that destroy insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas and cause disease. For this project his lab employs a wide range of genetically modified mouse strains to perform studies to identify genes and therapeutic targets involved in this process. Teaching Teaching: Area of Speciality; Growth and Development of Farm Animals and Immunology Undergraduate Course: ANS 3043: Dr. Driver is a co-instructor for this 3-credit course titled: Growth and Development of Farm Animals (G&D). His portion of the course teaches the anatomy and physiology of important tissue types, hormonal regulation of growth, growth curves, and environmental and genetic factors that modulate growth and development. Graduate Courses: ANS 6775: (previously designated ANS 6932): This 1-credit course entitled Essentials of Livestock Immunology is taught during the Spring semester. This course is designed to provide immunology neophytes a working knowledge of how different components of the mammalian immune system come together to coordinate immune responses. The course objective is to provide graduate students with the necessary background to apply and understand immunology principles in their research. ANS 6775 is a lecture style course that loosely follows subject matter in the leading immunology textbooks combined with my own experiences in genetics and immunology research.ANS 6939: Dr. Driver also a co-instructs a 1-credit livestock immunology journal club within the Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology (AMCB) graduate program. This class meets once a week in both Spring and Fall semesters and provides students the opportunity to present and critique research articles from leading immunology journals. ANS 6939: He coordinates the AMCB seminar series every Spring and Fall semester. This series exposes graduate students and faculty within ANS and AMCB to the best up-and-coming and established biological scientists from across campus. AMCB seminar also provides a platform for graduate students to present their own research for critical evaluation by faculty and peers. Courses Taught Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-392-1981 Ext. 244 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611jdriver@ufl.edu Education Education and Training: Bachelor of Science in Animal Science1995 - 1998 The University of Pretoria, South Africa Master of Science (cum laude) in Animal Nutrition1999 - 2001 The University of Pretoria, South Africa Thesis Title: Cultivating thermophilic fungi for the production of thermostable phytases and the comparison of the thermostability and efficacy of phytases produced under liquid culture or solid culture conditions. Ph.D. in Animal Nutrition 2001 - 2004 The University of Georgia, Athens GA Thesis Title: Determining the influence of dietary calcium and phosphorus levels on phytate phosphorus availability, the efficacy of phytase and requirements for vitamin D, vitamin D derivatives and maternal vitamin D. Postdoctorate 2005-2010 The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME (Laboratory of Dr. David Serreze) Utilization of mouse models to probe the genetic basis for type 1 diabetes development Associate Research Scientist (non-tenure track) 2010-2011 The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME Publications Recent Oral Presentations and Selected Publications Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships Southern Poultry Science Society Poultry Science Association World Poultry Science Association American Diabetes Association Honors 1997-1998, Scholastic Achievement Scholarship for undergraduate studies, University of Pretoria 1999, Professor C. Maree Scholarship for Master of Science 1998-1999, Carl Duisberg Society Internship for International Study 1999, University of Pretoria International Study Award for Masters Research 2001, A. B. Bosman medal for "Best Graduate Student in Animal Science for 2001" 2001, Academic Honors, The University of Pretoria 2004, Student Certificate of Excellence at the Poultry Science Association's 93rd Annual Meeting, St. Louis, MO Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Thu, 28 May 2020 09:51:17 EDT
