Brad Daigneault - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr.Brad Daigneault Assistant Professor - Reproductive Biology Dr. Daigneault conducts research to identify reasons for infertility in livestock and humans. His research addresses embryo origins of pregnancy failure with an emphasis on paternal contributions and gene-environment interactions that alter sperm function and embryo development. The laboratory uses assisted reproductive technologies and gene editing strategies in multiple species that includes genomic, epigenomic and translational approaches to improve reproductive efficiency for agriculture and biomedical applications. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Daigneaults research program is focused on improving reproductive efficiency in livestock and humans by identifying embryo origins of pregnancy failure. His laboratory conducts basic and translational research to address infertility using large animal models for agriculture and biomedical research. Specific interests are paternal contributions and gene-environment interactions that alter embryo development. Our laboratory incorporates bioassays, cellular, genomic and molecular techniques to answer important questions related to both male and female infertility. Some approaches include genome editing, assisted reproductive technologies, micromanipulation and semen evaluation techniques. We investigate genomic, epigenomic and environmental regulation of preimplantation embryo development in cattle, pigs and horses with an emphasis on post-ejaculatory sperm exposure to environmental toxicants that result in subtle phenotypes but alter sperm function, fertilization and embryo development. Research conducted with gametes and embryos also serves to model human embryo development by permitting techniques compatible for gene function studies. In addition to our primary research focus we also use large animal models to study human diseases that intersect with infertility. Our goal is to identify therapeutic approaches to relieve infertility in human patients. We also conduct equine reproductive research for industry applications and as models of human infertility. Teaching ANS 3319 Reproductive Physiology and Endocrinology in Domestic Animals Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-273-2021 2250 Shealy Dr. Bldg 459, Room 210D Gainesville, FL 32611 b.daigneault@ufl.edu Daigneault Laboratory Education Education: 2010-2015; Ph.D. Animal Science, University of Illinois 2008-2010; M.S.Biomedical Sciences, Equine Reproduction,Colorado State University 2003 2006; B.S. Animal Science, Texas A&M University Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2020 Current: Assistant Professor of Reproductive Biology, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida 2018 2020: Postdoctoral Fellow NIH T32 Trainee, Department of Animal Sciences, Michigan State University 2015 2018: USDA Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Animal Sciences, Michigan State University Publications Publications Equine Publications Professional Service and Awards Awards, Honors and Recognitions USDA Merit Award ASAS/SSR Blue Ribbon Poster College of ACES Graduate Student Teaching Award Young Scholar Award - American Society of Animal Sciences Excellence in Teaching- Campus-Wide (UofI) (Outstanding- Top 10%); 2014 & 2015 Graduate Student Fellowship Award Univ. of Illinois Dept of ANSC College of ACES Travel Award New Biology Training Program Travel Grant IETS Travel Award to 17th International Congress on Animal Reproduction Graduate Student Recognition Award - University of Illinois College of ACES Gamma Delta Sigma Agriculture Organization Inductee at University of Illinois Professional Memberships International Embryo Technology Society (IETS) President - IETS Morulas Trainee Organization 2014 - 2016 Governor - IETS Morulas Trainee Organization 2012 - 2014 Society for the Study of Reproduction (SSR) Guest Editor: Frontiers in Genetics Genome editing in animal research Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Fri, 3 Dec 2021 12:13:12 EST
