Raluca Mateescu - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Raluca Mateescu Professor Dr. Raluca Mateescu joined the faculty in the Department of Animal Science at University of Florida, after serving on the Animal Science faculty at Oklahoma State University for 7 years. She received a B.S. degree in Molecular Biology and Genetics from Bucharest University, Romania and received her M.S and Ph.D. in Animal Breeding and Genetics from Cornell University. As an Associate Professor of Quantitative Genetics & Genomics, her research is motivated by recent advances in the animal genomics field, which hold great promise for improving animal production efficiency and enhancing animal products for improved human health. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Raluca Mateescu does research in the area of beef cattle, sheep and goat molecular genetics. Most biological traits of economic importance in domestic animals have a complex inheritance (are influenced by many genes and the environment) and the long-term research goal is to unravel the genetic basis for the phenotypic variability in this type of trait. Her research is motivated by recent advances in the animal genomics field, which hold great promise for improving animal production efficiency and enhancing animal products for improved human health. Whether it is improving nutritional and health value of beef for better human health, improving resilience of sheep to environmental stressors, or increased milk production or ability to breed out-of-season in sheep, her research is directed at providing practical, industry applications. Her research contributes molecular genetics knowledge and tools, which can make a real impact in our understanding of gene regulation of biological functions, while keeping the research relevant to stakeholders and society at large. Teaching Area of Speciality; Genomic Discoveries Dr. Mateescu has dedicated much of her time to incorporating the latest genomic discoveries in teaching, at both undergraduate and graduate level, to ensure that the student population is well prepared to become participants in the genetic revolution and informed users or consumers of biotechnology. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 Phone: 352-392-2367 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611raluca@ufl.eduMateescu's Animal Genetics and Genomics Lab Page Education Education: 2004, Ph.D. (Animal Breeding and Genetics, Minor in Biochemistry & Molecular and Cell Biology), Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 2001, M.S. (Animal Breeding and Genetics, Minor in Biochemistry & Molecular and Cell Biology), Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 1997, B.S. (Molecular Biology and Genetics), Bucharest University, Bucharest, Romania Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2014-current; Associate Professor of Quantitative Genetics and Genomics. Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 2012-2014; Associate Professor of Animal Genomics. Department of Animal Sciences, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK 2006-2012; Assistant Professor of Animal Genomics. Department of Animal Sciences, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK 2004-2006; Postdoctoral Research Associate. College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY Publications Google Scholar Publications (.pdf 66KB) Book Contribuations (.pdf 5KB) Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships American Society of Animal Science International Society for Animal Genetics New York Academy of Sciences North American Colleges and Teachers of Agriculture Gamma Sigma Delta Sigma Xi Honors and Recognition April 2002, New Teacher Award, Gamma Sigma Delta July 2003, Recipient of National Wool Growers Memorial Fellowship Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Thu, 17 Sep 2020 16:22:38 EDT
