Emily K Miller-Cushon - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Students Undergraduate Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Graduate GraduateStudents Animal Molecular and Cellular Biology Animal Science Graduate Student Association Resources Course Listings Syllabi Advisors Research Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses,Trainings, and Programs Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Know Your Heifer - Optimizing Replacement Beef Heifer Development Florida International Dairy Academy (FIDA) Events Facilities ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Dr. Emily K. Miller-Cushon Associate Professorof Animal Behavior and Welfare Dr. Miller-Cushon conducts research and teaching in the areas of applied animal behavior and welfare. Her lab focuses on the relationships between management, behavior, and welfare of farm animals. Current research includes investigation of the role of early environment in behavioral development, with applications to refine livestock management to improve animal welfare, and exploration of novel behavioral approaches to evaluate animal welfare. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Miller-Cushons research program focuses on the relationships between management, behavior, and welfare of farm animals. In general, she is interested in how behavior patterns develop and are affected by factors in the environment, and what behavior can tell us about animal welfare. Current research in her lab is investigating the development of feeding and social behavior of dairy calves, with a focus on how these behavioral patterns respond to aspects of management, such as housing, diet, and environmental complexity, and relate to other measures of welfare, including states of pain and disease. Dr. Miller-Cushon ultimately aims to apply research findings to refine dairy calf management strategies to improve long-term welfare and to identify novel behavioral measures to improve welfare assessment. Teaching ANS 4932 Livestock Behavior & Welfare, Fall 3cr ANS 6932 Applied Ethology, Spring 3cr Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-294-6982 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611emillerc@ufl.edu Education Education April 2014; Ph.D., Animal Behavior and Welfare, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario April 2009; B.Sc., Honours, Mathematical Physics, Biophysics Specialization, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario Academic Positions Since Final Degre Aug. 2014-present; Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL Publications Google Scholar Professional Service and Awards Awards, Honors, and Outstanding Achievements International Society for Applied Ethology New Investigator Award (2019) UF IFAS CALS Innovation in Teaching Award (2019) Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Alexander Graham Bell Canada Graduate Scholarship (2012 - 2104). Professional Memberships International Society for Applied Ethology American Dairy Science Association Site Feedback| 2021 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN Privacy| EEO StatementLast Modified:Tue, 6 Jul 2021 09:36:42 EDT
