Zahra Mohaghegh | Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Apply Give My.NPRE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering Search Menu Search About Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here About Welcome NPRE Fact Sheet Faculty and Facilities Brochure Talbot Laboratory Expansion Our History Partnerships Employment Opportunities Visiting NPRE and Campus Contact Us Admissions Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here Admissions Why NPRE? Professional Concentrations Our Community Scholarships Undergrad Experience Careers By the Numbers Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Deadlines Financial Aid Housing Requirements Graduate Admissions Graduate Transfer Academics Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here Academics Undergraduate Programs Programs of Study Nuclear Power Plasma/Fusion Radiological Sciences Degree Requirements Suggested Sequence Curriculum Map Advising Scholarships Honors and Programs Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Internships and Workshops Student Outcomes Program Educational Objectives Graduate Programs Degrees & Curriculum Fellowships and Awards Internships and Workshops Qualifying Examination Academic Resources Student Societies Courses Research Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty. Learn More Research Research Areas Materials Science Nuclear Power Plasma Physics and Fusion Radiological Science Reliability and Risk Research Groups Research Facilities News Meng study hopes to advance radiopharmaceutical therapeutics with multi-isotope molecular imaging Read Full Story NPRE News | November 30, 2021 News Calendar Leadership Speaker Series NPRE SPEED Interchange Newsletter Alumni Contact Us Ross WilliamsAssociate Director of Advancement1060 ECE Building(217) 244-2296rwilli@illinois.edu Alumni Awards Alumni Board Events People Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty. Learn More People All Faculty NPRE Faculty Affiliate Faculty Adjunct Faculty Administration Emeritus Faculty Research Staff HomePeople Zahra Mohaghegh Zahra Mohaghegh Associate Professor (217) 300-5076 zahra13@illinois.edu 111 G Talbot Laboratory For more information Socio-Technical Risk Analysis (SoTeRiA) Research Laboratory Education University of Maryland at College Park, PhD, Reliability Engineering, 2007 University of Maryland at College Park, MS, Reliability Engineering, 2006 Biography Zahra Mohaghegh is an Associate Professor in the Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering in the Grainger College of Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). She is also an affiliate to Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, School of Information Sciences, the Illinois Informatics Institute, and the Carle Illinois College of Medicine at UIUC. Mohaghegh established the Socio-Technical Risk Analysis (SoTeRiA) Research Laboratory (http://soteria.npre.illinois.edu/) at UIUC to advance risk science and applications for the safety of complex technological systems such as commercial nuclear power plants and advanced reactors, civil aviation, and oil industries. Dr. Mohaghegh is serving as a member of the Committee on Transport Airplane Risk Assessment Methodology of the U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. She has conducted research and published widely on probabilistic risk assessment, probabilistic physics of failure analysis, human-system reliability modeling, risk-informed decision making, and uncertainty analysis; benefiting from grants awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy, National Science Foundation, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, nuclear power industry, and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Mohaghegh received the Zonta International Award for conducting aviation safety research; the George Apostolakis Award in risk assessment; the College of Engineering at Illinois Deans Award for Excellence in Research; and the American Nuclear Society Mary Jane Oestmann Professional Womens Achievement Award for her pioneering in the introduction of human and organizational factors into the risk analysis of socio-technical systems in nuclear and other high-risk industries. Dr. Mohaghegh is a member of the Board of Directors of the International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM) and served as the Technical Chair for the 2013 American Nuclear Society Risk Management topical meeting; the Academic Chair for the 2017 International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis (PSA 2017); the Senior Advisory Board Member for the PSA 2021; and a reviewer of a consensus study report of the U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on Technical Feasibility of a Wheelchair Securement Concept for Airline Travel. Academic Positions 2020 - Present, Associate Professor, Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 2015 - Present, Part-time Faculty, Beckman Institute of Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 2014 - Present, Faculty Affiliate, Illinois Informatics Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 2014 - Present, Faculty Affiliate, School of Information Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 2013 - 2020, Assistant Professor, Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Other Professional Employment 2010 - 2013, Founder & Principal Research Scientist, Soteria Consultants, LLC, Boston, MA Resident Instruction NPRE 561: Advanced Risk Analysis for Technological Systems, Spring Semesters NPRE 461: Probabilistic Risk Assessment, Fall Semesters Research Interests Probabilistic Risk Assessment (PRA) for light water & advanced reactors Risk-informed regulation & policy making for technological systems System reliability & maintainability Uncertainty quantification Coupled human-physics failure simulation More information is available on: soteria.npre.illinois.edu Research Areas Reliability and Risk Risk and Policy Training and Education, Human Factors Selected Articles in Journals J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, A discourse on the incorporation of organizational factors into probabilistic risk assessment: key questions & categorical review, Risk Analysis, Vol. 40, Is. 6, (2020) G. Schumock, S. Zhang, P. Farshadmanesh, J.G. Owens, N. Kasza, J. Stearns, T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, Integrated risk-informed design (I-RID) methodological framework and computational application for FLEX equipment storage buildings of nuclear power plants, Progress in Nuclear Energy, Vol. 120, (2020) J. Pence, P. Farshadmanesh, J. Kim, C. Blake, Z. Mohaghegh, Data-theoretic approach for socio-technical risk analysis: text mining licensee event reports of U.S. nuclear power plants, Safety Science, Vol. 124, Is. Virtual Special Issue: Safety Analytics, (2020) W.C. Cheng, T. Sakurahara, S. Zhang, P. Farshadmanesh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, K. Heckmann, J. Sievers, B. Lydell, C. Zammali, X.-X. Yuan, X. Duan, R. Alzbutas, G.-G. Lee, J.A. Karim, V. Morozov, C. Takasugi, T. Jevremovic, Review and categorization of existing studies on the estimation of probabilistic failure metrics for reactor coolant pressure boundary piping and steam generator tubes in nuclear power plants, Progress in Nuclear Energy, Vol. 118 (2020) T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, Human reliability analysis (HRA)-based method for manual fire suppression analysis in an integrated probabilistic risk assessment, SCE-ASME Journal of Risk and Uncertainty in Engineering Systems: Part B. Mechanical Engineering, Special Issue on Human Performance & Decision-making in Complex Industrial Environments, Vol. 6, Is. 1, (2020) H. Bui, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Spatiotemporal integration of an agent-based first responder performance model with a fire hazard propagation model for probabilistic risk assessment of nuclear power plants, SCE-ASME Journal of Risk and Uncertainty in Engineering Systems: Part B. Mechanical Engineering, Special Issue on Human Performance & Decision-making in Complex Industrial Environments, Vol. 6, Is. 1, (2020) T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Global importance measure methodology for integrated probabilistic risk assessment frameworks, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part O: Journal of Risk and Reliability, (2019) T. Sakurahara, N. O'Shea, W.-C. Cheng, S. Zhang, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Integrating renewal process modeling with probabilistic physics-of-failure: Application for estimation of loss of coolant accident (LOCA) frequencies in nuclear power plants, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 190, (2019) H. Bui, T. Sakurahara, J. Pence, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, An algorithm for enhancing spatiotemporal resolution of probabilistic risk assessment to address emergent safety concerns in nuclear power plants, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 185, pp. 405-428, (2019) J. Pence, T. Sakurahara, X. Zhu, Z. Mohaghegh, M. Ertem, C. Ostroff, E. Kee, Data-theoretic methodology and computational platform to quantify organizational factors in socio-technical risk analysis, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 185, pp. 240-260, (2019) T. Sakurahara, G. Schumock, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Simulation-informed probabilistic methodology for common cause failure analysis, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 185, pp. 84-99, (2019) P. Farshadmanesh, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Shake-RoverD framework for nuclear power plants: A streamlined approach for seismic risk assessment, Nuclear Technology, Vol. 205, Is. 3, pp. 442-463, (2019) J. Pence, I. Miller, T. Sakurahara, J. Whitacre, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, GIS-based integration of social vulnerability and level 3 probabilistic risk assessment to advance emergency preparedness, planning, and response for severe nuclear power plant accidents, Risk Analysis, Vol. 39, Is. 6, pp. 1262-1280, (2018) T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Methodological and practical comparison of integrated probabilistic risk assessment (I-PRA) with the existing fire PRA of nuclear power plants, Nuclear Technology, Vol. 204, Is. 3, pp. 354-377, (2018) J. Pence, M. Abolhelm, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, M. Ertem, E. Kee, Methodology to evaluate the monetary benefit of probabilistic risk assessment by modeling the net value of risk-informed applications at nuclear power plants, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 175, pp. 171-182, (2018) T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, M. Brandyberry, S. Rodgers, An integrated methodology for spatio-temporal incorporation of underlying failure mechanisms into fire probabilistic risk assessment of nuclear power plants, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 169, pp. 242-257, (2018) E. Kee, J. Hasenbein, A. Zolan, P. Grissom, S. Reihani, Z. Mohaghegh, F. Yilmaz, B. Letellier, V. Moiseytseva, R. Vaghetto, D. Imbaratto, T. Sakurahara, RoverD: Use of test data in GSI-191 risk assessment, Nuclear Technology, Vol. 196, Is. 2, pp. 270-291, (2016) Z. Mohaghegh, R. Kazemi, A. Mosleh, Incorporating organizational factors into probabilistic risk assessment (PRA) of complex socio-technical systems: A hybrid technique formalization, Reliability Engineering & System Safety, Vol. 94, Is. 5, pp. 1000-1018, (2009) Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, Incorporating organizational factors into probabilistic risk assessment of complex socio-technical systems: principles and theoretical foundations, Safety Science, Vol. 47, Is. 8, pp. 1139-1158, (2009) Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, Measurement techniques for organizational safety causal models: Characterization and suggestions for enhancements, Safety Science, Vol. 47, Is. 10, pp. 1398-1409, (2009) Articles in Conference Proceedings K. Shimada, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, Z. Mohaghegh, Integration of evacuation simulation with a Level 3 PRA code for nuclear power plants, Proceedings of the 2020 Asian Symposium on Risk Assessment and Management Conference (ASRAM 2020), Online Virtual Conference, 2020 T. Sakurahara, H. Bui, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Enhancing realism in fire probabilistic risk assessment of nuclear power plants, Proceeding of the 30th European Safety and Reliability Conference (ESREL) and the 15th Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (PSAM) Conference, Venice, Italy, 2020 J. Beal, T. Sakurahara, E. Kee, S. Reihani, Z. Mohaghegh, An algorithm for risk-informed analysis of advanced reactors with a case study of pipe failure rate estimation, Proceeding of the 30th European Safety and Reliability Conference (ESREL) and the 15th Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (PSAM) Conference, Venice, Italy, 2020 J. Beal, T. Sakurahara, E. Kee, S. Reihani, Z. Mohaghegh, Integrated enterprise risk management to synchronize safety and profitability analysis for nuclear power plants. In: Transactions of American Nuclear Society (ANS) Winter Meeting and Technology Expo, Chicago, IL, 2020 H. Bui, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, J. Biersdorf, Z. Mohaghegh, I-PRA uncertainty importance ranking to enhance fire pra realism for nuclear power plants. In: Transactions of American Nuclear Society (ANS) Winter Meeting and Technology Expo, Chicago, IL, 2020 W.-C. Cheng, J. Beal, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Integrated probabilistic physics of failure methodology to estimate pipe failure rates for risk-informed analysis of advanced reactors. In: Transactions of American Nuclear Society (ANS) Winter Meeting and Technology Expo, Chicago, IL, 2020 S. Alkhatib, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, E. Kee, B. Ratte, Z. Mohaghegh, Academia-industry collaboration to advance screening processes in fire pra of nuclear power plants, Proceeding of the 30th European Safety and Reliability Conference (ESREL) and the 15th Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (PSAM) Conference, Venice, Italy, 2020 P. Farshadmanesh, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Risk-informed analysis of nuclear power plant FLEX storage building, Proceeding of the 30th European Safety and Reliability Conference (ESREL) and the 15th Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (PSAM) Conference, Venice, Italy, 2020 J. Yang, P. Farshadmanesh, T. Sakurahara, J. Pence, S. Reihani, C. Blake, Z. Mohaghegh, Equipping machine learning with uncertainty quantification to update probabilistic risk assessment of nuclear power plants using NRC licensee event reports. In: Transactions of American Nuclear Society (ANS) Winter Meeting and Technology Expo, Chicago, IL, 2020 H. Bui, T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, J. Biersdorf, Z. Mohaghegh, Integrated Probabilistic Risk Assessment (I-PRA) Importance Ranking for Fire PRA of Nuclear Power Plants. In: Transactions of the American Nuclear Society (ANS) Winter Meeting and Technology Expo, Washington DC, USA, 2019 J. Beal, T. Sakurahara, J. Pence, P. Farshadmanesh, E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, Coupling degradation and maintenance to model safety risk and financial risk under an integrated enterprise risk management methodology for nuclear power plants, The 25th International Conference on Structural Mechanics in Reactor Technology (SMiRT 25), Charlotte, NC, 2019 T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Modeling the interface of manual fire protection actions with fire progression in fire probabilistic risk assessment of nuclear power plants, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 H. Bui, J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Spatio-temporal socio-technical risk analysis methodology: An application in emergency response, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 [Scopus Citations: 10] W.C. Cheng, C. Ding, N. O'Shea, T. Sakurahara, G. Schumock, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Global sensitivity analysis to rank parameters of stress corrosion cracking in the spatio-temporal probabilistic model of loss-of-coolant accident frequencies, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 T. Sakurahara, G. Schumock, T. Murase, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Spatio-temporal probabilistic methodology and computational platform for common cause failure modeling in risk analysis, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Global importance measure methodology for integrated probabilistic risk assessment, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 [Scopus Citations: 10] J. Pence, Y. Sun, X. Zhu, Z. Mohaghegh, C. Ostroff, E. Kee, Data-theoretic methodology and computational platform for the quantification of organizational mechanisms in probabilistic risk assessment, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 H. Bui, T. Sakurahara, J. Pence, Z. Gu, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, M. Wortman, E. Kee, V. Moiseytseva, D. Johnson, Protective systems: Definitions and terms in the regulated risk assessment setting, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 H. Bui, T. Sakurahara, W.C. Cheng, T. Crook, R. Vaghetto, M. Wortman, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, D. Munoz, D. Johnson, W. Schulz, F. Yilmaz, V. Moiseytseva, Protective systems: An application of regulatory guidance for ECCS sump performance, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 T. Sakurahara, H.B. Hoang, J. Pence, W.C. Cheng, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, S. Reihani, M. Wortman, V. Moiseytseva, F. Yilmaz, D. Johnson, Protective systems: Possible extensions to the RoverD method, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2017, American Nuclear Society, Pittsburgh, PA, Sept. 24-28, 2017 H. Bui, J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, Spatio-temporal socio-technical risk analysis methodology for emergency response, Proceedings of 13th International Conference on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (PSAM 13), International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Seoul, Korea, Oct. 2-7, 2016 N. O'Shea, Z. Mohaghegh, S. Reihani, E. Kee, Estimating loss-of-coolant accident (LOCA) frequencies via spatio-temporal methodology, Proceedings of 13th International Conference on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (PSAM 13), International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Seoul, Korea, Oct. 2-7, 2016 N. O'Shea, Z. Mohaghegh, Spatio-temporal methodology for estimating loss-of-coolant accident frequencies in the risk-informed resolution of generic safety issue 191, Proceedings of 2016 Student Conference, American Nuclear Society, Madison, WI, Mar. 31 - Apr. 3, 2016 T. Sakurahara, S.A. Reihani, Z. Mohaghegh, M. Brandyberry, E. Kee, S. Rodgers, M.A. Billings, D. Johnson, Integrated PRA methodology to advance fire risk modeling for nuclear power plants, Proceedings of Safety and Reliability of Complex Engineered Systems: ESREL 2015, CRC Press, Zrich, Switzerland, Sept. 7-10, 2015 [Scopus Citations: 11] I. Miller, J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, J. Whitacre, E. Kee, Using GIS to integrate social factors with level 3 PRA for emergency response, Proceedings of Safety and Reliability of Complex Engineered Systems: ESREL 2015, CRC Press, Zrich, Switzerland, Sept. 7-10, 2015 J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, Risk-informed emergency response via spatio-temporal socio-technical risk analysis, Proceedings of Safety and Reliability of Complex Engineered Systems: ESREL 2015, CRC Press, Zrich, Switzerland, Sept. 7-10, 2015 N. O'Shea, Z. Mohaghegh, S.A. Reihani, E. Kee, K. Fleming, B. Lydell, Analyzing non-piping location-specific LOCA frequency for risk-informed resolution of generic safety issue 191, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2015, American Nuclear Society, Sun Valley, ID, April 26-30, 2015 J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, C. Ostroff, V. Dang, E. Kee, R. Hubenak, M.A. Billings, Quantifying organizational factors in human reliability analysis using the big data-theoretic algorithm, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2015, American Nuclear Society, Sun Valley, ID, April 26-30, 2015 [Scopus Citations: 16] J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, On the incorporation of spatio-temporal dimensions into socio-technical risk analysis, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis, PSA 2015, American Nuclear Society, Sun Valley, ID, April 26-30, 2015 [Scopus Citations: 10] N. O'Shea, J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, Physics of failure, predictive modeling & data analytics for LOCA frequency, Proceedings of 2015 Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium (RAMS), IEEE, Palm Harbor, FL, Jan. 26-29, 2015 J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, C. Ostroff, E. Kee, F. Yilmaz, R. Grantom, D. Johnson, Toward monitoring organizational safety indicators by integrating probabilistic risk assessment, socio-technical systems theory, and big data analytics, Proceedings of PSAM 2014 - Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Honolulu, HI, June 22-27, 2014 [Google Scholar Citations: 15] M. Abolhelm, J. Pence, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, Toward demonstrating the monetary value of probabilistic risk assessment for nuclear power plants, Proceedings of PSAM 2014 - Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Honolulu, HI, June 22-27, 2014 T. Sakurahara, S.A. Reihani, Z. Mohaghegh, M. Brandyberry, E. Kee, D. Johnson, S. Rodgers, M.A. Billings, Developing a new fire PRA framework by integrating probabilistic risk assessment with a fire simulation module, Proceedings of PSAM 2014 - Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Honolulu, HI, June 22-27, 2014 [Scopus Citations: 10] T. Sakurahara, S. Reihani, M. Ertem, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, Analyzing importance measure methodologies for integrated probabilistic risk assessment in nuclear power plants, Proceedings of PSAM 2014 - Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Honolulu, HI, June 22-27, 2014 [Scopus Citations: 13] T. Sakurahara, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, S. Rodgers, M. Brandyberry, R. Kazemi, S. Reihani, A new integrated framework to advance fire probabilistic risk analysis of nuclear power plants, Proceedings of Risk Management for Complex Socio-Technical Systems [RM4CSS], American Nuclear Society, Washington, DC, November 10-14, 2013 E. Kee, Z. Mohaghegh, R. Kazemi, S. Reihani, B. Letellier, R. Grantom, Risk-informed decision making: Application in nuclear power plant design & operation, Proceedings of Risk Management for Complex Socio-Technical Systems [RM4CSS], American Nuclear Society, Washington, DC, November 10-14, 2013 A. Elbanna, Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, S. Reihani, R. Kazemi, S. Rodgers, Towards physics-based seismic PRA, Proceedings of Risk Management for Complex Socio-Technical Systems [RM4CSS], American Nuclear Society, Washington, DC, November 10-14, 2013 Z. Mohaghegh, E. Kee, S. Reihani, R. Kazemi, D. Johnson, R. Grantom, K. Fleming, T. Sande, B. Letellier, G. Zigler, D. Morton, J. Tejada, K. Howe, J. Leavitt, Y. Hassan, R. Vaghetto, S. Lee, S. Blossom, Risk-informed resolution of generic safety issue 191, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis 2013, PSA 2013, American Nuclear Society, Columbia, SC, Sept. 22-27, 2013 [Scopus Citations: 32] T. Sande, G. Zigler, E. Kee, B. Letellier, R. Grantom, Z. Mohaghegh, The benefits of using a risk-informed approach to resolving GSI-191, Proceedings of International Conference on Nuclear Engineering, Anaheim, CA, July 30-Aug. 3, 2012 Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, M. Modarres, Hybrid incorporation of physical & social failure mechanisms into probabilistic risk assessment, Proceedings of 11th International Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management Conference and the Annual European Safety and Reliability Conference 2012, PSAM11 ESREL 2012, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Helsinki, Finland, June 25-29, 2012 Z. Mohaghegh, M. Modarres, A probabilistic physics-of-failure approach to common cause failures in reliability assessment of structures and components, Proceedings of Embedded Topical Meeting: 1st ANS SMR Conference and Young Professionals Congress, American Nuclear Society, Washington, DC, Oct. 30-Nov. 3, 2011 Z. Mohaghegh, M. Modarres, A. Christou, Physics-based common cause failure modeling in probabilistic risk analysis: A mechanistic perspective, Proceedings of ASME 2011 Power Conference collocated with JSME ICOPE 2011, ASME, Denver, CO, July 12-14, 2011 [Scopus Citations: 10] Z. Mohaghegh, M. Modarres, Common cause failure modeling using probabilistic physics-of-failure (POF) analysis: A mechanistic approach, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis (PSA 2011), American Nuclear Society, Wilmington, NC, March 13-17, 2011 Z. Mohaghegh, Development of an aviation safety causal model using socio-technical risk analysis (SoTeRiA), Proceedings of 10th International Conference on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management 2010, PSAM 2010, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Seattle, WA, June 7-11, 2010 Z. Mohaghegh, Combining system dynamics and Bayesian belief networks for socio-technical risk analysis, Proceedings of 2010 IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and Security Informatics, IEEE, Vancouver, BC, Canada, May 23-26, 2010 [Google Scholar Citations: 16] Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, Modeling organizational influences for new-generation probabilistic risk analysis of technical systems, Proceedings of Embedded Topical Meeting: Risk Management---For Tomorrow's Challenges, American Nuclear Society, Washington, DC, Nov. 15-19, 2009 Z. Mohaghegh, Modeling emergent behavior for socio-technical probabilistic risk assessment, Proceedings of Nuclear Plant Instrumentation, Control, and Human-Machine Interface Technologies (NPIC&HMIT 2009), American Nuclear Society, Knoxville, TN, April 5-9, 2009 Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, Theoretical foundations for building organizational safety models for PRA applications, Proceedings of International Topical Meeting on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Analysis (PSA 2008), American Nuclear Society, Knoxville, TN, Sept. 7-11, 2008 Z. Mohaghegh, R. Kazemi, A. Mosleh, A hybrid technique for organizational safety risk analysis, Proceedings of 9th International Conference on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management 2008, PSAM 2008, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), Hong Kong, China, May 18-23, 2008 Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, Multi-dimensional measurement perspective in modeling organizational safety risk, Proceedings of European Safety and Reliability Conference 2007, ESREL 2007 - Risk, Reliability and Societal Safety, Taylor & Francis Group, Stavanger, Norway, June 25-27, 2007 Z. Mohaghegh, A. Mosleh, A causal modeling framework for assessing organizational factors and their impacts on safety performance, Proceedings of 8th International Conference on Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management, PSAM 2006, International Association for Probabilistic Safety Assessment and Management (IAPSAM), New Orleans, LA, May 14-18, 2006 Professional Societies American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Member (2007 - Present) Society for Risk Analysis, Member (2007 - Present) American Nuclear Society, Member (2009 - Present) Teaching Honors Engineering Council Award for Excellence in Advising from the College of Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (2016) Research Honors Mary Jane Oestmann Professional Women's Achievement Award from the American Nuclear Society (2016) Deans Award for Excellence in Research from the College of Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (2015) The George Apostolakis Fellowship in Risk Assessment (2012) Zonta International Amelia Earhart Award (2007) Public Service Honors Recognition for Excellence as Technical Chair of Risk Management Topical Meeting from the American Nuclear Society (2013) Recent Courses Taught NPRE 461 - Probabilistic Risk Assessment NPRE 498 PR1 (NPRE 498 PR4, NPRE 498 PRA) - Advanced Risk Analysis NPRE 561 - Advanced Risk Analysis NPRE 595 - Student Research Seminar NPRE 598 PRA - Advanced Risk Analysis Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Make a Gift Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 216 Talbot Laboratory, MC-234 104 South Wright Street Urbana, IL 61801 Phone: 217-333-2295 | Fax: 217-333-2906 Email: nuclear@illinois.edu Visit Campus 3 Concentrations Plasma and Fusion Power, Safety and the Environment Radiological, Medical, and Instrument Applications Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
