Magdi Ragheb | Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Apply Give My.NPRE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering Search Menu Search About Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here About Welcome NPRE Fact Sheet Faculty and Facilities Brochure Talbot Laboratory Expansion Our History Partnerships Employment Opportunities Visiting NPRE and Campus Contact Us Admissions Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here Admissions Why NPRE? Professional Concentrations Our Community Scholarships Undergrad Experience Careers By the Numbers Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Deadlines Financial Aid Housing Requirements Graduate Admissions Graduate Transfer Academics Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here Academics Undergraduate Programs Programs of Study Nuclear Power Plasma/Fusion Radiological Sciences Degree Requirements Suggested Sequence Curriculum Map Advising Scholarships Honors and Programs Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Internships and Workshops Student Outcomes Program Educational Objectives Graduate Programs Degrees & Curriculum Fellowships and Awards Internships and Workshops Qualifying Examination Academic Resources Student Societies Courses Research Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty. Learn More Research Research Areas Materials Science Nuclear Power Plasma Physics and Fusion Radiological Science Reliability and Risk Research Groups Research Facilities News Meng study hopes to advance radiopharmaceutical therapeutics with multi-isotope molecular imaging Read Full Story NPRE News | November 30, 2021 News Calendar Leadership Speaker Series NPRE SPEED Interchange Newsletter Alumni Contact Us Ross WilliamsAssociate Director of Advancement1060 ECE Building(217) 244-2296rwilli@illinois.edu Alumni Awards Alumni Board Events People Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty. Learn More People All Faculty NPRE Faculty Affiliate Faculty Adjunct Faculty Administration Emeritus Faculty Research Staff HomePeople Magdi Ragheb Magdi Ragheb Associate Professor (217) 333-6569 mragheb@illinois.edu 111F Talbot Laboratory Education University of Wisconsin, Madison, Ph.D., Nuclear Engineering/Computer Sciences, 1978 University of Wisconsin, Madison, M.Sc., Nuclear Engineering, 1974 University of Alexandria, Undp-Unesco, M.Sc., Nuclear Engineering, Science Centre for Postgraduate Studies, 1973 University of Alexandria, B.Sc., Nuclear Engineering, 1970 Academic Positions 1986 - present, Associate Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering 1985 -1987. Faculty Visitor, Interdisciplinary Research Center, National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA), University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 1979-1986, Assistant Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering Major Consulting Activities Fusion Research Program, Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison. Joint work on blanket and shield design of contemplated fusion reactors designs. Department of Nuclear Engineering, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York. Three-dimensional neutronics and photonics studies of high-temperature fusion blankets for process heat and synthetic fuels production. Development of Monte Carlo calculational techniques. Imagineering Ltd., Minnetonka, Minnesota. Measurement of Plasma Ion Density and or Temperature Profiles in Near Term Fusion Ignition Experiments. Illinois Power Company, Clinton Power Plant, Clinton, Illinois. Development of Computerized Technical Specifications and Limiting Conditions System based on Artificial Intelligence Concepts. Imagineering Ltd., Minnetonka, Minnesota. Particle Transport for High Resolution Industrial Neutron Tomography of Thick Structures. Illinois Department of Nuclear Safety, State of Illinois, Springfield, Illinois. Development of System for Emergency Response Analysis based on Artificial Intelligence Concepts. O'Donnell and Associates, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Shielding Studies in Support of the SP-100 Space Power Reactor Program. Applications Department, Cray Research Inc., Mendota Heights, Minnesota. Development of Artificial Intelligence Concepts on Supercomputers with application to the Safety Analysis of Nuclear Power plants. The first general-purpose Inference Engine using forward and backward chaining to be installed on a Cray Supercomputer was developed by M. Ragheb. Inference Corp., Los Angeles, CA, University Advisory Committee, Joint Research on Artificial Intelligence Applications in Education and Research. Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL), Computer Application Division, Idaho Falls, Idaho Research Interests Generalized Formulation of Monte Carlo Estimators over Terminating Markov Chains Dissociating Gases for Fusion Reactors cooling A new fusion fuel cycle: TT Fusion Knowledge Engineering Tools for the conduct of Monte Carlo Shielding Calculations and the interpretation of shielding experiments. Implementation of Knowledge Engineering Methodologies on Supercomputers with application to Nuclear Reactor Safety Analysis. Computer Simulation of Particle Transport in Fast-Neutron Cancer Therapy. Consultation Aid on a Distributed System of Symbolic-Processing Machines and Supercomputers for faster-than-real-time nuclear reactors accidents monitoring and simulation. Decision Aid System for Emergency Preparedness based on Knowledge Engineering Concepts. Fuzzy Logic and Possibility Theory for machine learning using analogy and decision-making under uncertainty. Numerical Modelling of Thermal-Hydraulics and Reactor Transient Phenomena Coupled Probabilistic-Possibilistic Methodologies for Fault Diagnosis Engineering Anticipatory Systems Synthesis and Genetic Algorithms Research Areas Advanced Reactor Designs Reactor Analysis Methods Reactor Physics Reliability and Risk Risk and Policy Training and Education, Human Factors Selected Articles in Journals Luo, N., Ragheb, M. and G. H. Miley, "Proton bremsstrahlung and its radiation effects in fusion reactors," Fusion Engineering and Design, v 85(1), pp 39-45 (2010). Ragheb, M. and K. Toukan, "Development of Desalination Technology using Nuclear Power and Conventional Methods," ASTA Meeting, Ritz-Carlton, Oct. 16, Chicago (Oct. 1992). Ragheb, M., G. W. Lee and O. Uluyol, "Boolean and Fuzzy Logic for Symbolic and Conventional Systems," Proc. American Power Conference, 54th Annual Meeting, April 13-15, Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, Il (1992). Ragheb, M. and G. W. Lee, "Synthesis of Insightful Algorithms," Proc. Eighth Power Plant Dynamics Control and Testing Symposium," Knoxville, Tennessee, (May 27-29, 1992). Shaheen, M. and M. Ragheb, "Anomolous Deuteran to Hydrogen Ratio in Naturally Occurring Fission Reactions and the Possibility of Deuteran Dosentegration," Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry, Articles Vol. 158, No. 2, 323-342 (1992). Hora, H., L. Cicchitelli, G. H. Miley, M. Ragheb, A. Scharmann, and W. Scheid, "Plasma and Surface Tension Model for Explaining the Surface Effect of Tritium Generation at Cold Fusion," IL Nuovo Cimento, 12D, 3, 393-393 (1990). Ragheb, M. and G. H. Miley, "Deuteron Disintegration in Condensed Media," Workshop on Cold Fusion Phenomena, May 1989; Journal of Fusion Energy, 9, 41, 429-436 (1990). Patents Dr. M. Ragheb implemented the first Knowledge Engineering Analysis System on a Cray Supercomputer in 1985. "HAL-1985" is an analysis system (production system) based on the Rule-Based-System Paradigm. This problem-solving paradigm is the most popular one in Knowledge Engineering, the part of Artificial Intelligence specialized in building Expert Systems. The latest version HAL-1986 is listed in the Cray's software directory. Portable Standard Lisp (PSL) was implemented by M. Ragheb and W. Anderson from Los Alamos National Laboratory on the Univ. of Illinois Cray X-MP in Jan. of 1986. This analysis system uses both Backward-Chaining and Forward Chaining. The Inference Engine uses a deduction-oriented antecedent-consequent logic. It is implemented on a Cray-X-MP advanced large-scale and high-speed multiprocessor system for Scientific Applications. The programming language used is PSL (Portable Standard LISP). The Inference Engine is general and can accommodate general modifications and additions to the Knowledge Base. The Knowledge Base: "SAFETY", currently includes a system for the diagnosis of abnormal situations in Nuclear Reactor Safety Analysis. The Knowledge Box uses a goal tree (AND/0R tree) for representation. Magazine Articles 8. Ragheb, M., "HAL-1989, Version 2.0," Applications Software Librarian, Applications Dept., Cray Research Inc., 1333 Northland Drive, Mendota Heights, MN 55409. *7. Ragheb, M., Associate Editor, "Deep Penetration: Problems and Methods of Solution," Preface, Special Section, Nucl. Technol./Fusion, 5, 69-137 (1984). Journal Editorships Guest Editor, Special Section, "Deep Penetration: Problems and Methods of Solution," Nuclear Technology Kunon, 5, (1984). Professional Societies Sigma Xi, The Scientific Research Society - Member American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) - Member Fusion Energy Division, American Nuclear Society - Member Radiation Protection and Shielding Division, American Nuclear Society- Program Committee Member Service on College Committees College of Engineering Registration and Student Advisement Comm., 1990- Recent Courses Taught NPRE 402 - Nuclear Power Engineering NPRE 457 - Safety Anlys Nucl Reactor Syst NPRE 475 - Wind Power Systems NPRE 498 ESG (NPRE 498 ESU, NPRE 498 ONL) - Energy Storage Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Make a Gift Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 216 Talbot Laboratory, MC-234 104 South Wright Street Urbana, IL 61801 Phone: 217-333-2295 | Fax: 217-333-2906 Email: nuclear@illinois.edu Visit Campus 3 Concentrations Plasma and Fusion Power, Safety and the Environment Radiological, Medical, and Instrument Applications Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
