Hampton University : Department of Chemistry : Faculty About AcademicPrograms Admissions Faculty&Staff News Alumni Events Search Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Faculty Dr. Willie Darby Associate Professor, Chemistry and Biochemistry Location:Turner Hall328 Phone:757-727-5249 E-mail:willie.darby@hamptonu.edu Education:1982, Auburn University Research Interests Teaching methodolgy for General Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry Studies of transition metal complexes of nitrogen donor ligands Research Programs Currently my research interests involve two areas: synthesis of metal complexes of nitrogen and oxygen donor ligands and the structural elucidation of small molecule compounds. In the area of synthesis, two areas are of importance. Positive Ion Work: Extensive studies of the complexes of positively charged nitrogen donor ligands (aliphatic as well as aromatic) have been carried out. Most recently, studies have involved the complexes of the three isomeric diazines, pyrimidine, pyrazine and pyridazine. This work has potential as models for biological molecules as well as thermochromic compounds. Thermochromic Substances: This work is aimed at synthesizing new thermochromic substances, and to investigate their optical, structural and magnetic properties, to examine the effect of environmental conditions (temperature, moisture, natural acids and UV light) on both free and encapsulated thermochromic compounds; to examine the ways in which such compounds might be encapsulated in various structure materials, such as plastics, glass, etc. or incorporated in paints as temperature sensors. Thermochromic complexes of some tetra-ammonium and phosphonium salts as well as some thermochromic diamine nickel complexes have been successfully sythesized. These complexes are currently being characterized. The synthesis of complexes that undergo thermochromic transitions at sub-zero temperatures as well as those that change between 70-130 degrees Celsius is being investigated. Structural Elucidation of Small Molecules: The strucutres of several metal containing molecules have been determined. Recent Publications The structure of the copper(II) complex of 2-acetylpyridinehexamethyleneiminylthiosemicarbazone, [Cu(Lhexim)Br], by R. J. Butcher, D. X. West, W. L. Darby, and J. P. Jasinski, Trans. Met. Chem. 18, 449 (1993). First Observation of pi-bonding in triple-decker pyrrolyl complexes: Crystal structure of [tetramethylpyrrolylCo]2(C2Et2B3H3), by R. J. Butcher, W. L. Darby, E. Sinn, Inorg. Chim. Acta 203, 51 (1993). Steric Hindrance in 2,6-disubstituted pyridines part II: The crystal structures of trans-dichlorobis(2,6-dimethylpyridine)nickel(II) and trans-dichlorobis(2,4,6-trimethylpyridine)nickel(II), by W. L. Darby, R. J. Butcher, and L. M. Vallarino, Inorg. Chim. Acta 194, 113 (1992). Monoquaternized pyrazinium cations as examples of non-basic nitrogen-donor ligands, by W. L. Darby and L. M. Vallarino, Inorg. Chim. Acta 75, 65 (1983). Stereochemical trends for complexes of cobalt(II) halides and thiocyanate with a series of mono-, di-, and trimethylpyridines, by W. L. Darby and L. M. Vallarino, Inorg. Chim. Acta 48, 215 (1981). Hydrolysis-assisted formation of a mono-nuclear five-coordinate dihydroxoiodocobaltate(II) ion, by W. L. Darby and L. M. Vallarino, Inorg. Chem. 18, 2617 (1979). Inhibition of reactivity in square planar complexes of nickel(II) with 2,6-disubstituted pyridines: A novel effect in steric hindrance, by W. L. Darby and L. M. Vallarino, Inorg. Chim. Acta, 36, 253 (1979). Equal Opportunity Accessibility Title IX Legal & Privacy Website Feedback Accreditation Directory 2021 Hampton University Hampton, VA 23668 : 757.727.5000
