Hao Tang BMCC XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX;visibility:hidden"> A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Bursar Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs The Heights Continuing Ed Students Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring Linkedin Learning CUNYfirst OpenLab Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Home FacultyHao Tang Hao Tang ProfessorComputer Information Systems EMAIL: htang@bmcc.cuny.edu Office: F-930N Office Hours: Phone: +1 (212) 220-1479 Professor Hao Tang has taught courses in Computer Science at BMCC since 2012. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has funded one of his research projects, focused on developing computer software that will measure crowd distribution and density. In this project, Professor Tang worked closely with researchers at the Command, Control and Interoperability Center for Advanced Data Analysis (CCICADA) at Rutgers University, The State University of New Jersey. Professor Tang and his project were featured on the New York Post and MTA trains in 2016 2017. Professor Tangs research interests in 3D computer modeling, artificial intelligence, virtual and augmented reality, mobile computer vision and their applications in security, surveillance, assistive technology and education. Professor Tang was a 2013 Best Paper award nominee at the IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo. That year, he also won, as co-advisor, Second Place for the Deans Prize of the CCNY Kaylie Entrepreneurship Competition for GesTherapy using hand gesture-based therapy to remodel physical rehabilitation. In 2016, he was a nominee for the H. Robert Schroeder Best Paper Award at the IEEE Integrated STEM Education Conference. Professor Tang has encouraged BMCC students to take part in his research projects and has guided students in presenting their research findings related to artificial intelligence and assistive technology, many of his students continued working on research projects with him after transferring to senior colleges. Some students became software developers at the top tech companies, including Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, and fintech companies, JPMorgan Chase, as well as the federal agencies, such as Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Homeland Security. Expertise3D Computer Modeling, Visualization of Large-Scale Scene, Image Understanding, Video Mining, Mobile Vision and Navigation and the applications in assistive technology for the blind DegreesPh.D. CUNY Graduate Center, Computer Science, Courses Taught4 CRS.3 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 155CIS 155 (Computer Hardware)This course introduces students to computer hardware. Computer components such as motherboards, memory chips, disk drives, printers, scanners, storage devices, and keyboards will be covered. Students will learn how to install, maintain, upgrade and configure such hardware components. Students will also be introduced to binary, octal, and hexadecimal number systems as used in computer hardware. Students will be introduced to industry ethics, professional certifications, and career paths in the computer industry.3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CIS 395CIS 395 (Database Systems I)This course introduces the design, implementation, testing, and manipulation of database management systems. The design techniques include conceptual data modeling, entity relational modeling and normalization techniques. The databases are then implemented using structured query languages. Testing strategies verify data integrity, security, and privacy. Manipulation activities include insert, update, and delete operations. Prerequisite: CSC 110 or CSC 111 or department approval.Course Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CSC 101CSC 101 (Principles in Information Technology and Computation)This course introduces the student to the principles and theories of computation and information processing. The topics include hardware and software organization, data representation, algorithm development and networking principles. Special emphasis will be placed on creation of knowledge from data; the impact of computation on daily life; role of abstraction in solving problems; and implementation of algorithms on a variety of platforms including the Internet.4 CRS.5 HRS.CSC 110CSC 110 (Computer Programming I)This course introduces the student to the theoretical and practical aspects of computers. The major laboratory experience is the completion of programming projects using Polya's four-step method. These projects have been carefully selected and ordered to provide the student with experience in fundamental control and data structures. All practical programming work is done on microcomputers.Prerequisite: CSC 101, GIS 101 or Departmental ApprovalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 210CSC 210 (Computer Programming II)This course is a continuation of CSC 110. Students are introduced to elementary data structures, string processing, and searching and sorting techniques. Students are expected to complete several complex programs.Prerequisite: CSC 110, CSC 111 or departmental approvalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 211CSC 211 (Advanced Programming Techniques)This is a second course in programming which will further develop those skills gained in CSC 111 emphasizing reliability, maintainability, and reusability. Students will be introduced to applications of Pointers, Dynamic memory allocation, Arrays, Abstract data types, Objects, classes, and object-oriented design. Additional programming topics such as Inheritance, Polymorphism, Text Processing, Exception Handling, Recursion and Templates will also be covered. Prerequisite: CSC 111 or departmental approval3 CRS.3 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 230CSC 230 (Discrete Structures)This course covers mathematical foundations for computer science. Topics include algorithm analysis, recursion and recurrence, graph theory, trees, Boolean algebra, and modeling computation. Students will be expected to complete projects for each topic involving formal proof techniques, mathematical reasoning and/or programming.Prerequisite: CSC 110Corequisite: MAT 206Course Syllabus4 CRS.4 HRS.CSC 231CSC 231 (Discrete Structures and Applications to Computer Science)This course covers the computer science applications of fundamental mathematical structures. Topics include logic, set theory, function, relations, algorithm, recursion, recurrence relations, principle of counting, graph theory, trees, and Boolean algebra. Students will be expected to complete projects for each topic involving formal proof techniques, mathematical reasoning and/or programming. Prerequisite: [CSC 111 and MAT 301] or departmental approval3 CRS.1 HRS.4 LAB HRS.CSC 331CSC 331 (Data Structures)This course will introduce students to linear and non-linear data structures, their use and implementation, algorithms, and software engineering techniques. Topics will include: stacks, queues, lined lists, has tables, trees, graphs, searching and sorting techniques. Asymptotic analysis of algorithms and data structures will also be discussed.Prerequisites: [CSC 211 and CSC 231] or departmental approval3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 350CSC 350 (Software Development)This course covers the fundamentals of software development, including software development life cycle, object-oriented paradigm, design patterns and event-driven programming working in teams. The students are required to develop software applications with graphic user interfaces and databases. Prerequisite: CSC 211 or departmental approval4 CRS.3 HRS.3 LAB HRS.GIS 201GIS 201 (Introduction to Geographic Methods)This course introduces the means by which geographers analyze the world to better understand geography and geographical processes. It teaches the students various methods for interpreting and analyzing spatial data including cartography, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), remote sensing, spatial statistics and survey research.Research and ProjectsProfessor Tangs most recent research Projects includes Exploring Virtual Environments by Visually Impaired Using a Mixed Reality Cane Integrating AR and VR for Mobile Remote Collaboration Assistive Navigation using Mobile App Build Accessible Storefront Open Source Map Virtual Reality Mobile Physics Lab App Virtual Reality Mobile Mandarin Learning App Professor Tangs research grants include: Defense Intelligence Agency, Intelligence Community Centers for Academic Excellence Program, a sub-award from Rutgers University, BMCC PI, 2019-2023 National Science Foundation Research Grant, PFI-RP: Smart and Accessible Transportation Hub for Assistive Navigation and Facility Management, BMCC PI, collaboration with faculty at CCNY, Rutgers University and Lighthouse Guild, 2018-2021. Defense Intelligence Agency, IC CAE Certificate in Intelligence and National Security-Critical Technology Studies, BMCC PI, 2018-2021 National Science Foundation Research Grant, SCC-Planning: Integrative Research and Community Engagement for Smart and Accessible Transportation Hub (SAT-Hub), Senior Personnel, with faculty in CCNY and Rutgers University, 2017-2018. Department of Homeland Security Research Grant, Verification of Crowd Behavior Simulation by Video Analysis, PI, 3/2016-12/2017 Faculty Development Grant, Accurate Indoor 3D Model Generation by Integrating Architectural Floor Plan and RGBD Images, PI, 4/2016-4/2017 PSC-CUNY Research Awards, PI, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020 CUNY C.C. Research Grant, Mobile Indoor Navigation for the Blind, Single-PI, 9/2016-9/2017 CUNY Innovations in Language Education (ILE) Grants, Microlearning Based Mobile Game for Mandarin Learning and Assessment, Co-PI, 2016-2017 PublicationsResearch Book Chapters (2012-present): F. Hu, H. Tang, T. Alexander, Z. Zhu, Computer Vision Techniques to Assist Visually Impaired People to Navigate in an Indoor Environment, Computer Vision for Assistive Healthcare,Elsevier Edgardo Molina, Wai Khoo and Hao Tang and Zhigang Zhu, Registration of Video Images,Theory and Applications of Image Registration, http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-1119171717.html,Wiley Press Peer-Reviewed Journal Papers (2012-present): Olmschenk, G., Wang, X., Tang, H., and Zhu, Z. Impact of Labeling Schemes on Dense Crowd Counting Using Convolutional Neural Networks with Multiscale Upsampling. International Journal of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence, Special Issue for VISAPP, Vol. 35, No. 13 October 2021 Zhigang Zhu, Jin Chen, Lei Zhang, Yaohua, Chang, Tyler Franklin, Hao Tang, Arber Ruci, iASSIST: An iPhone-Based Multimedia Information System for Indoor Assistive Navigation, accepted by International Journal of Multimedia Data Engineering and Management, 2020. Greg Olmschenk, Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu, Generalizing semi-supervised generative adversarial networks to regression using feature contrasting, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, V. 186, September, 2019 Hu Feng, Zhigang Zhu, Juery Mejia, Hao Tang and Jianting Zhang, Real-time indoor assistive localization with mobile omnidirectional vision and cloud GPU acceleration, ASM EE Journal, V1 (1), Dec. 2017 Hao Tang, Tayo Amuneke, Juan Lantigua, Huang Zou, William Seiple and Zhigang Zhu. Indoor Map Learning for the Visually Impaired, Journal on Technology and Persons with Disabilities, Journal on Technology and Persons with Disabilities, V5. June 2017. Hao Tang, Norbu Tsering, Feng Hu, and Zhigang Zhu. Automatic Pre-Journey Indoor Map Generation Using AutoCAD Floor Plan, Journal on Technology and Persons with Disabilities, Journal on Technology and Persons with Disabilities, V4. Oct. 2016 Hu Feng, Norbu Tsering, Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu. Indoor Localization for the Visually Impaired Using a 3D Sensor. Journal on Technology and Persons with Disabilities, V4. Oct. 2016 Maggie Vincent, Hao Tang, Wai Khoo, Zhigang Zhu and Tony Ro, Shape Discrimination using the Tongue: Feasibility of a Visual to Tongue Stimulation Substitution Device, Journal of Multisensory Research, 2016 29, 773-798. Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu, Content-Based 3D Mosaics for Representing Videos of Dynamic Urban Scenes, IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 22(2), 2012, 295-308 Peer-Reviewed Conference Papers (2012-present): Lei Zhang, Kelvin Wu, Bin Yang, Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu. Exploring Virtual Environments by Visually Impaired Using a Mixed Reality Cane Without Visual Feedback, ISMAR 2020 International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality, November 9-13, 2020. Video Demo Yaohua Chang, Jin Chen, Tyler Franklin, Lei Zhang, Arber Ruci, Hao Tang and Zhigang Zhu. Multimodal Information Integration for Indoor Navigation Using a Smartphone. IRI2020 -The 21st IEEE International Conference on Information Reuse and Integration for Data Science, August 11-13, 2020 (Full Regular Paper for Oral Presentation, 28% acceptance rate) Zhigang Zhu, Jie Gong, Cecilia Feeley, Huy Vo, Hao Tang, Arber Ruci, William Seiple and Zhengyi Wu. SAT-Hub: Smart and Accessible Transportation Hub for Assistive Navigation and Facility Management. Harvard CRCS Workshop on AI for Social Good, July 20-21, 2020 Greg Olmschenk, Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu. Improving Dense Crowd Counting Convolutional Neural Networks using Inverse k-Nearest Neighbor Maps and Multiscale Upsampling. VISAPP 2020, the 15th International Conference on Computer Vision Theory and Applications. Hao Tang, Xuan Wang, Greg Olmschenk. Cecilia Feeley, Zhigang Zhu. Assistive Navigation and Interaction with Mobile & VR Apps for People with ASD. The 35th CSUN Assistive Technology Conference, March 9-13, 2020. Huang Zou, Hao Tang, Remote Collaboration in a Complex Environment, Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision, March 2020 Jeremy Venerella, Lakpa Sherpa, Tyler Franklin, Hao Tang, Zhigang. Zhu. Integrating AR and VR for Mobile Remote Collaboration, In: Proceedings of the International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality, Oct 2019. Video Demo Greg Olmschenk, Hao Tang, Jin Chen and Zhigang Zhu, Dense Crowd Counting Convolutional Neural Networks with Minimal Data using Semi-Supervised Dual-Goal Generative Adversarial Networks, CVPR Workshop on Weakly Supervised Learning for Real-World Computer Vision Applications, Long Beach, CA, 2019. Jeremy Venerella, Lakpa Sherpa, Hao Tang, Zhigang Zhu, A Lightweight Mobile Remote Collaboration Using Mixed Reality, CVPR Workshop on Computer Vision for Augmented and Virtual Reality, Long Beach, CA, 2019. Greg Olmschenk, Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu, Crowd Counting with Minimal Data Using Generative Adversarial Networks for Multiple Target Regression, 2018 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), 1151-1159, Lake Tahoe, NV, 2018 Jie Gong, Cecilia Feeley, Hao Tang, Greg Olmschenk, Vishnu Nair, Zhixiang Zhou, Yi Yu, Ken Yamamoto and Zhigang Zhu. Building Smart Transportation Hubs with Internet of Things to Improve Services to People with Special Needs, Transportation Research Board (TRB) 96th Annual Meeting, January 8-12, 2017 Greg Olmschenk, Hao Tang, and Zhigang Zhu, Pitch and Roll Camera Orientation from a Single 2D Image Using Convolutional Neural Networks. Proceedings of the 14th Conference on Computer and Robot Vision, Edmonton, Alberta, May 17-19, 2017 Feng Hu, Norbu Tsering and Hao Tang, Zhigang Zhu, RGB-D Sensor Based Indoor Localization for the Visually Impaired, 31th Annual International Technology and Persons with Disabilities Conference, March 21-26, 2016 Hao Tang, Norbu Tsering and Feng Hu, Automatic Pre-Journey Indoor Map Generation Using AutoCAD Floor Plan, 31th Annual International Technology and Persons with Disabilities Conference, March 21-26, 2016 Zhigang Zhu, Wai L. Khoo, Camille Santistevan, Yuying Gosser, Edgardo Molina, Hao Tang, Tony Ro and Yingli Tian, EFRI-REM at CCNY: Research Experience and Mentoring for Underrepresented Groups in Cross-disciplinary Research on Assistive Technology. The 6th IEEE Integrated STEM Education Conference (ISEC), March 6, 2016, Princeton, New Jersey (one of the 5 H. Robert Schroeder Best Paper Award Nominees among 50 oral papers). Hao Tang, Tony Ro, Zhigang Zhu. Smart Sampling and Transducing 3D Scenes for the Visually Impaired. IEEE International conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME), 2013 (oral). The paper is selected in the best paper award Nominee (rate: 2.4%). Hao Tang, Maggie Vincnt, Tony Ro, Zhigang Zhu. From RGB-D to Low-Resolution Tactile: Smart Sampling and Early Testing. IEEE Workshop on Multimodal and Alternative Perception for Visually Impaired People, ICME 2013 Honors, Awards and Affiliations The Best Paper Award Nominees, the 15th International Conference on Computer Vision Theory and Applications, Malta, February 2020. CUNY-American Dream Machine on New York Post and MTA, 2016-2017 DHS S&T Research Grant, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 2016 Link The Best Paper Award Nominees, The 6th IEEE Integrated STEM Education Conference (ISEC), March 6, 2016, Princeton, New Jersey, 2016. Summer Research Team Award, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 2015 The Best Paper Award Finalist, IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME), 2013 Additional InformationFormer Research Assistants: Erii Sugimoto, Indoor Navigation for Visually Impaired, 2016-2018, CUNY Collaborative Research Grant and BFF, Now Software Engineer at Apple Inc. Sihan Lin, Indoor Navigation for Visually Impaired, 2016-2018, MEISP, Now Software Engineer at JPMorgan Chase. Tayo Amuneke, Pre-journey Mobile App for the Visually Impaired, 2015-2017, LSAMP, Now Software Engineer at Microsoft Inc. Sanou Wourohire Laurent, Language-based Learning Mobile App, 2015-2016, LSAMP, Now Software Engineer at JPMorgan Chase. Juan Lantigua, Pre-journey Mobile App for the Visually Impaired, 2015-2017, MEISP, Now Software Engineer at JPMorgan Chase. Norbu Tsering, Automatic Pre-Journey Indoor Map Generation Using AutoCAD Floor Plan, 2015-2017, NSF-REM, Now Software Development Engineer at Amazon Web Services Huang Zou, Remote Collaboration in a Complex Environment, 2014-2017, CRSP, Now Software Development Engineer at Velan Studios, Inc (Video Game Development) Jeury Mejia, Real-time indoor assistive localization, 2014-2016, NSF-REM, Now Software Engineer at Jopwell Jiayi An, Accessible Game for Blind People, 2015-2016, NSF-REM, Now Software Engineer at US Environmental Protection Agency Olesya Medvedeva, Machine Learning Algorithm for Speaker Recognition and Emotion Detection, 2014-2016, Transfer to Columbia U. Now Software Engineer at MLB Advanced Media, L.P Rodny Perez, Detect MTA Door on a Mobile Phone, 2013-2014, Now Software Engineer at JPMorgan Chase. Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Academic Policies Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
