Mete Kok BMCC XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX;visibility:hidden"> A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Bursar Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs The Heights Continuing Ed Students Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring Linkedin Learning CUNYfirst OpenLab Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Home FacultyAhmet Mete Kok Ahmet Mete Kok ProfessorComputer Information Systems EMAIL: amkok@bmcc.cuny.edu Office: F-930S Office Hours: Phone: +1 (212) 220-1492 ExpertiseRobotics, Physical Computing, Autonomous Agents, Machine Learning , Networking, Traffic Analysis, Stochastic Processes, Network Behavior under Different Application Environments. , Database, Data Mining, Pattern Recognition, Applications of Pattern Recognition to Genomics, Bioinformatics, Data Visualization Modeling, Rendering, 3D Image Representation., Computer Security, Secure Programming, Information assurance, Encryption Techniques Degrees B.S. SUNY at Stony Brook, Computer Science,1982 M.S. Polytechnic Institute of New York, Computer Science,1984 Ph.D. CUNY Graduate School, Computer Science,1996 Courses Taught3 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 495CIS 495 (Database Systems II)This advanced course builds upon the design, implementation, testing, and manipulation concepts and techniques learned in CIS 395. The course starts with a review of the relational model, entity relational diagrams, normalization, and basic SQL. Database administration topics presented include security, back-up and recovery. Advanced topics in design techniques include indexing structures and data storage. Advanced implementation topics include SQL programming, store procedure and triggers. Advanced manipulation topics include transaction processing concurrency control. Prerequisite: CIS 395 or departmental approvalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.1 HRS.4 LAB HRS.CSC 331CSC 331 (Data Structures)This course will introduce students to linear and non-linear data structures, their use and implementation, algorithms, and software engineering techniques. Topics will include: stacks, queues, lined lists, has tables, trees, graphs, searching and sorting techniques. Asymptotic analysis of algorithms and data structures will also be discussed.Prerequisites: [CSC 211 and CSC 231] or departmental approval3 CRS.4 HRS.MMP 100MMP 100 (Introduction to Multimedia)This course introduces students to the fundamentals of multimedia production. In a hands-on class, students will learn the essentials of program design and authoring software in an integrated computer environment. Students will learn how to combine graphics, audio and text to create programs for industrial and educational applications.Course SyllabusResearch and Projects Using Educational Robotics to Improve Student Retention and Recruitment in STEM Education The Borough of Manhattan Community College and Lehman College are collaborating on this project which is improving student retention in STEM disciplines by using educational robotics to teach critical thinking, problem solving, algorithm development and scientific reasoning skills. Intellectual Merit: This project is adopting existing curriculum materials in robotics and adapting them to increase the retention of undergraduate computing and physics students. It is using hands-on, student-centered, and goal-oriented learning to motivate, retain, and attract STEM students. Broader Impacts: This project is targeting traditionally underrepresented groups in STEM education and establishing articulation paths between local two- and four-year institutions. It is also using faculty workshops to build a community of STEM educators interested in educational robotics. PublicationsHonors, Awards and AffiliationsAdditional Information Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Academic Policies Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
