Kevin F. Byron, PhD BMCC XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX;visibility:hidden"> A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Bursar Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs The Heights Continuing Ed Students Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring Linkedin Learning CUNYfirst OpenLab Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Home Faculty Kevin Byron Assistant ProfessorComputer Information Systems EMAIL: kbyron@bmcc.cuny.edu Office: Office Hours: Online via Zoom Conferencing; Fall 2020 office hours: Monday 5pm-7pm, Saturday 2pm-3pm Phone: Dr. Byron is an information technologies (IT) leader and university educator with strong life sciences and bioinformatics analytical skills. He co-authored Bioinformatics Database Systems (Taylor & Francis Publishers). Dr. Byrons unique IT systems and services skills set includes: digital transformation, cloud contingency/DR planning, IT asset management and CMDB, ERP project management, IT policies and security, professional team building, gene network inference, RNA structure mining, common sub-graph pattern mining, Amazon Web Services (AWS), deep learning Amazon machine image (DLAMI). ExpertiseDegrees PhD, BS, Computer Science, New Jersey Institute of Technology MS, Computer Science, Stevens Institute of Technology AAS, Computer Science, Union County Technical Institute Courses Taught3 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CSC 215CSC 215 (Fundamentals of Computer Systems)This course covers the fundamentals of computer organization and digital logic. Topics include number systems and codes, Boolean algebra, digital circuits, combinational logic design principles, sequential logic design principles, functional components of computer systems, hardware description language, and assembly language. Students will use computer aided design (CAD) tools for digital logic design, analysis and simulation. Prerequisite: CSC 111 or departmental approval4 CRS.4 HRS.CSC 231CSC 231 (Discrete Structures and Applications to Computer Science)This course covers the computer science applications of fundamental mathematical structures. Topics include logic, set theory, function, relations, algorithm, recursion, recurrence relations, principle of counting, graph theory, trees, and Boolean algebra. Students will be expected to complete projects for each topic involving formal proof techniques, mathematical reasoning and/or programming. Prerequisite: [CSC 111 and MAT 301] or departmental approval3 CRS.1 HRS.4 LAB HRS.CSC 331CSC 331 (Data Structures)This course will introduce students to linear and non-linear data structures, their use and implementation, algorithms, and software engineering techniques. Topics will include: stacks, queues, lined lists, has tables, trees, graphs, searching and sorting techniques. Asymptotic analysis of algorithms and data structures will also be discussed.Prerequisites: [CSC 211 and CSC 231] or departmental approval3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 350CSC 350 (Software Development)This course covers the fundamentals of software development, including software development life cycle, object-oriented paradigm, design patterns and event-driven programming working in teams. The students are required to develop software applications with graphic user interfaces and databases. Prerequisite: CSC 211 or departmental approvalResearch and ProjectsPublications (selected publications ) KevinByron,Katherine G. Herbert,Jason T. L. Wang: Bioinformatics Database Systems. CRC Press, ISBN 978-1-4398-1247-1 (2016). KevinByron,Jason T. L. Wang: A comparative review of recent bioinformatics tools for inferring gene regulatory networks using time-series expression data.IJDMB20(4): 320-340 (2018). Yasser Abduallah,Turki Turki,KevinByron,Zongxuan Du,Miguel Cervantes-Cervantes,Jason T. L. Wang: MapReduce Algorithms for Inferring Gene Regulatory Networks from Time-Series Microarray Data Using an Information-Theoretic Approach. BioMed Research International (2017). KevinByron: PhD dissertation: Big Data Analytics in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics. New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark NJ (2017). Honors, Awards and AffiliationsUnion County CASA (Court Appointed Special Advocates) MISSION Court Appointed Special Advocates of Union County recruits, trains, supervises and supports community volunteers to advocate for abused, neglected and abandoned children placed in foster homes or residential facilities. CASA volunteers ensure childrens best interests remain the priority while working toward establishing a safe, stable and permanent home for each child served. VISION A world where all children are thriving. IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) MISSION IEEEs core purpose is to foster technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity. VISION IEEE will be essential to the global technical community and to technical professionals everywhere, and be universally recognized for the contributions of technology and of technical professionals in improving global conditions. New Jersey Chapter of SIM (Society for Information Management) MISSION SIM brings together IT leaders to share, network and give back to their communities through the collaboration of local chapters. SIM members strongly believe in and champion: The alignment of IT and business as a valued partnership; The creation and sharing of best practices; The effective, efficient and innovative business use of information technology to continuously bring to market valuable products and services; IT management and leadership skills development that enables our members growth at each stage of their career; The replenishment and education of future IT leaders including a strong role in influencing university curricula and continuing education; Working with the IT industry to shape its direction; Policies and legislation that stimulate innovation, economic development, healthy competition and IT job creation; Serving our communities and the industry through giving and outreach. VISION To be the most respected society of IT leaders. Additional Information Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Academic Policies Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
