Ching-Song Wei BMCC XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX;visibility:hidden"> A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Bursar Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs The Heights Continuing Ed Students Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring Linkedin Learning CUNYfirst OpenLab Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Reimagining BMCC Monitoring and Reporting Positive Cases Home FacultyChing-Song Wei Ching-Song Wei ProfessorChairperson Computer Information Systems EMAIL: cwei@bmcc.cuny.edu Office: F-930A Office Hours: Monday, Wednesday 4:00PM-5:00 PM Phone: +1 (212) 220-8385 ExpertiseOntology, Health Informatics , Database, Data Mining, Pattern Recognition, Applications of Pattern Recognition to Genomics, Bioinformatics, Database Management, Data Engineering, Computer Programming, Computer Networks Degrees B.S. National Cheng Kung University, Mechanical Engineering,1980 M.S. New Jersey Institute of Techonolgy, Mechanical Engineering (Minor in Manufacturing Engineering Systems),1988 Ph.D. New Jersey Institute of Techonolgy, Computer Science,1996 Courses Taught3 CRS.4 HRS.CIS 100CIS 100 (Introduction to Computer Applications)This course develops an understanding of computer technology through the exploration of software packages on personal computers. The applications include word processing, spreadsheet, and database management. Students will also learn computer terms and concepts as well as the historical, social and economic implications of computer technology for our society.Course Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 115CIS 115 (Introduction to Computer and Information Security)This course provides an introduction to computer and information security. The significance of information integrity, availability and confidentiality are presented to demonstrate the importance of computer and information security. Students will gain practical skills on how to recognize threats and correct vulnerabilities. Techniques of detection, prevention and recovery from intrusions by malicious software will be taught with emphasis on concepts of organizational security through the institution of policies and procedures, and establishment of business and continuity planning.Course Syllabus2 CRS.3 HRS.CIS 120CIS 120 (Introduction to Data Base Applications)This course introduces the student to data base concepts and applications using state-of-the-art data base packages. The student not only studies the theory of data bases, but also implements and tests complete data base applications. Prerequisite: CSC 110 or CIS 100Course Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 200CIS 200 (Introduction Systems and Technologies)This course introduces students to the use of information systems in business. The dramatic changes in Information Technologies (IT) impact the ways in which companies operate and compete in local and global economies. Students will explore the global and ethical issues that have developed with the use of information systems. Working individually and in teams, the students will complete case studies on the following topics: Management Information Systems (MIS), systems analysis and design, hardware and software concerns, and telecommunications. Prerequisites: Any ACC course or any BUS course and pass computer competency test or CIS 100Course Syllabus3 CRS.4 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 255CIS 255 (Computer Software)This course will introduce students to computer software. The topics covered will include Installation, configuration, security, maintenance, administration, and troubleshooting of the operating system and other software. Students will review binary, octal, hexadecimal numbering systems used in computer systems. Industry ethics and career paths will be reviewed.Prerequisite: CIS 165 or departmental approvalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.4 HRS.CIS 325CIS 325 (Systems Analysis)This course teaches the student how to analyze systems of programs and how to document these analyses. The student will learn case (computer assisted systems engineering) tools that are currently used in the field of systems analysis. Students are required to complete a semester project to analyze a complex computer system. This project will require the use of case tools to document the input and output requirements, data dictionaries, database design and normalization, ERD (entity relationship diagrams), DFD (data flow diagrams), systems flowcharts, run charts, and PERT (program evaluation review technique) charts. Prerequisite: CSC 210Course Syllabus4 CRS.5 HRS.CIS 365CIS 365 (Business Systems I)This course is an introductory business programming course. It introduces the students to business programming concepts such as analysis, implementation, and documentation of business systems. The students write business programs using a currently used program development language. The programming assignments include report generation, data validation, sort programs and single and multidimensional tables. The students are required to test and document all programs using standard business programming methods. Prerequisite: CSC 210Course Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CIS 395CIS 395 (Database Systems I)This course introduces the design, implementation, testing, and manipulation of database management systems. The design techniques include conceptual data modeling, entity relational modeling and normalization techniques. The databases are then implemented using structured query languages. Testing strategies verify data integrity, security, and privacy. Manipulation activities include insert, update, and delete operations. Prerequisite: CSC 110 or CSC 111 or department approval.Course Syllabus3 CRS.5 HRS.CIS 420CIS 420 (Systems Implementation)Students continue from the realm of theory taught in CIS 320, Systems Analysis, to realities of practical applications. The class is divided into teams. A system is developed as a joint effort by each team as it analyzes, systematizes, programs, and writes documentation to implement its projects. In addition to the team projects, topics relevant to current computing techniques are discussed and where applicable, demonstrated to, or practiced by the class. Prerequisites: CIS 365 and CIS 325Course Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 495CIS 495 (Database Systems II)This advanced course builds upon the design, implementation, testing, and manipulation concepts and techniques learned in CIS 395. The course starts with a review of the relational model, entity relational diagrams, normalization, and basic SQL. Database administration topics presented include security, back-up and recovery. Advanced topics in design techniques include indexing structures and data storage. Advanced implementation topics include SQL programming, store procedure and triggers. Advanced manipulation topics include transaction processing concurrency control. Prerequisite: CIS 395 or departmental approvalCourse Syllabus4 CRS.5 HRS.CSC 110CSC 110 (Computer Programming I)This course introduces the student to the theoretical and practical aspects of computers. The major laboratory experience is the completion of programming projects using Polya's four-step method. These projects have been carefully selected and ordered to provide the student with experience in fundamental control and data structures. All practical programming work is done on microcomputers.Prerequisite: CSC 101, GIS 101 or Departmental ApprovalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 210CSC 210 (Computer Programming II)This course is a continuation of CSC 110. Students are introduced to elementary data structures, string processing, and searching and sorting techniques. Students are expected to complete several complex programs.Prerequisite: CSC 110, CSC 111 or departmental approvalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.4 HRS.CSC 330CSC 330 (Data Structures I)This course is an introduction to abstract data structures, their use and implementation. Storage allocation techniques, including stacks, queues, and linked lists and recursive programming will be discussed. Students will be expected to complete several programming assignments illustrating the basic concepts. Prerequisites: CSC 210 and CSC 230Course Syllabus3 CRS.4 HRS.CSC 430CSC 430 (Data Structures II)This course introduces students to complex data structures. Topics include the manipulation and uses of trees, graphs and heaps; the design and analysis of various searching and sorting algorithms and their applications.Prerequisite: CSC 330Course SyllabusResearch and Projects PSC/Research Grant-Semantic Web Services in Health Information Systems Using semantic Web services to resolve the problems of data interoperability and data exchange for Health Information Systems. (Reported and closed on 2010) Creation of a AS degree for Geographic Information Systems for CIS department As the GIS systems continuoulsy grows and gains popularity in industrial applications, such as green technology, envrionmental science, land management, and etc., there is a great need in creating an AS degree at BMCC. This new program will be articulated with Hunter College. 2011 January: Letter of Intent approved 2011 Spring: Development of 5 courses, Development of Full proposal, and Articulation agreement with Hunter 2011 September, NSF ATE Grant $300,000 awarded. Curriculum Committee Member, BA degree for Halthcare Information Management major at School of Professional Studies 2011 Spring: Program approved. 2011 Summer: Developing the course of HIM 201 Health Data Information Management. PSC CUNY Research Award 2011 Ontology Mediation for Healthcare Information Exchange and Interoperability (HIEI) The ontology mediation included ontology mapping, alighment,a nd merging which will be used to support Semantic Web Service or creation of commonly shared target ontology in the applicationof HIEI. BMCC Faculty Development Grant, 2011-2012 Developing a Problem Based Teaching and Learning Platform for Computer Science Programming in 3-D Virtual World Using Second Life The first phase of this project consists of a more thorough literature review and identifying the appropriate collaborative programming projects and communication methods between students and instructor in Second Life. In the second phase, I will design and develop an automatic mechanism/application that follows the students within the Second Life, answers their questions when the instructor is not present, while simultaneously records the learning activities, and sends it back to the instructor for further assistance. In the third phase, I will recruit students from different sessions of Computer Programming courses (CSC110 or CSC210) to participate this project. In the fourth phase, evaluation of learning progress and comparison of participating students and non-participating students. Publications SECURED OPERATION PLANNING ON SERVICE NETWORKS, , International Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control,Volume 5, Number 3, pp. 609-618. A 3D Virtual World Teaching and Learning Platform for Computer Science Courses in Second Life,,International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering, Wuhan, China, December 11-13, pp. 1-4 Learning Semantics from Relational Database Schema and Data, ,International Conference on Computer and Computational Intelligence,Nanning, China, Volume 1, pp.600-605 Wei, C.S., J.G. Doong and P.A. Ng, On Solving Some He terogeneous Problems of Healthcare Information Sharing and Interoperability Using Ontology Computing. Biomedical Engineering: Health Care Systems, Technology and Techniques ,Edited by by Sang C. Suh, Varadraj P. Gurupur and Murat M. Tanik), Computer Science, Springer, 2011, pp. 157-176. ONTOAPP: AN ONTOLOG APPLICATION ON SOLVING SOME HETEROGENEOUS PROBLEMS OF HEALTHCARE INFORMATION SHARING AND INTEROPERABILITY ,SDPS Transactions Journal of Integrated Design & Process Science, December issue, 2011 Honors, Awards and Affiliations PSC CUNY Research Award 2011 Ontology Mediation for Healthcare Information Exchange and Interoperability (HIEI) BMCC Faculty Development Grant, 2011-2012 Developing a Problem Based Teaching and Learning Platform for Computer Science Programming in 3-D Virtual World Using Second Life NSF ATE 2011 Fostering Student Success in Geospatial Technology This project is focusing on the development, implementation, and assessment of five core courses in Geographic Information Science (GISc), which are building the foundation for the future development and implementation of a full-scale GISc program at the CUNY Borough of Manhattan Community College. The PIs have engaged appropriate expert assistance from nearby CUNY Hunter College, and also are working with representatives from the National Center for Geospatial Technology (NGTC), other two-year and four-year institutions, local private industries, and federal, state, and city agencies to develop, adapt, and implement exemplary educational materials and key pedagogical strategies in GISc. The short-term activities are aimed at creating, adapting, and disseminating new learning materials and teaching strategies to reflect advances in geospatial technology, and the project is serving the dual purpose of preparing students for entry level employment in a variety of industries and facilitating student transfer to local baccalaureate degree programs in Geographical Information Science (GISc). Additional Information .Net Technology C# Oracle A Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Academic Policies Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
