Aaron Bobick | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Academics Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Faculty Teaching Awards Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Engineering Summer School Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Emerging Leader Awards Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News A new way to deliver vaccines to the elderly without inflammation 07.26.2021 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Celebrating Black History Month Women & Engineering About Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop Tour our buildings About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions summer school Home Faculty Aaron Bobick Aaron Bobick Dean & James M. McKelvey Professor Computer Science & Engineering Phone314-935-6350 OfficeBrauer Hall, Room 1019 afb@wustl.edu Google Scholar Education PhD, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1987SB, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1981 Expertise Studies how robots can more efficiently interact with objects Biography Aaron Bobick joined Washington University in St. Louis as Dean of the School of Engineering & Applied Science and the James M. McKelvey Professor July 1, 2015. Prior to Washington University, he was a professor and founding chair of the School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he was a member of the faculty since 1999. Dean Bobick's research primarily focuses on action recognition by computer vision, a field in which he is a pioneer. Recently he has extended his research to robot perception for human-robot collaboration. While at Georgia Tech, he served as director of the Graphics, Visualization and Usability Center, an internationally known research center in computer vision, graphics, ubiquitous computing and human-computer interaction, and helped develop a computational media bachelors degree program and doctoral programs in robotics and human centered computing. Dean Bobick is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he earned his bachelor's degrees in mathematics and computer science and his doctorate in cognitive science. Prior to joining the Georgia Tech faculty, he served as a member of the MIT Media Laboratory faculty, where he led the Media Lab Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) Video Surveillance and Monitoring Project, as well as its Dynamic Scene Analysis research effort. He also has served as a senior area chair for numerous international computer vision conferences and as program chair for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. He has founded a variety of successful startup companies, is a distinguished scientist of the Association for Computing Machinery and was elected a Fellow of the IEEE in 2014. Affiliations Imaging Science PhD Program In the News McKelvey Engineering hosts more than 300 K-12 students at STEAM Academy summer camp Campers toured labs, met faculty and learned about the importance of engineering and the arts. 08.17.2021 Saving front-line workers In the early days of the pandemic, personal protective equipment was in short supply in the U.S., and its availability continues to be a problem globally, leaving health-care workers and their communities exposed. Jennifer DeLaney, MD 97, has been on a remarkable journey leading a local effort to help. 06.28.2021 In support of our Asian, Asian American and Pacific Islander communities 03.19.2021 Find more news about Aaron Bobick Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering MSC: 1100-122-303 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2021 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
