Ian Bogost | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Academics Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Faculty Teaching Awards Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Engineering Summer School Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Emerging Leader Awards Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News A new way to deliver vaccines to the elderly without inflammation 07.26.2021 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Celebrating Black History Month Women & Engineering About Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop Tour our buildings About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions summer school Home Faculty Ian Bogost Ian Bogost Professor and Director of Film & Media Studies and Professor of Computer Science & Engineering Computer Science & Engineering OfficeSiegle Hall, Room 401 ianb@wustl.edu Twitter Education PhD, University of California, Los Angeles, comparative literature, 2004 MA, University of California, Los Angeles, comparative literature, 2001 BA, University of Southern California, philosophy & comparative literature, 1998 Expertise Philosopher, computationalist and award-winning game designer Research Ian Bogost is internationally recognized for his writing on video games and media studies. He is the author of 11 books, several book series, many book chapters and journal articles. His research approaches media studies from the perspective of both a critic and a practitioner. While in graduate school, Bogost also worked for tech companies in the digital media space. He will bring that technical humanist experience to Washington University and will boost the university's growing expertise in video games and new media through his primary appointment in Arts & Sciences and secondary appointment in McKelvey Engineering. Bogosts games about social and political issues cover topics as varied as airportsecurity, consumer debt, disaffected workers, the petroleum industry, suburban errands,pandemic flu, and tort reform. His games have been played by millions of people andexhibited or held in collections internationally, at venues including the SmithsonianAmerican Art Museum; the Telfair Museum of Art; The San Francisco Museum of ModernArt; The Museum of Contemporary Art, Jacksonville; the Laboral Centro de Arte; and TheAustralian Centre for the Moving Image. Biography Ian Bogost's 11 books includePersuasiveGames: The Expressive Power of Videogames,Racing the Beam: The Atari Video ComputerSystem(with Nick Montfort),Alien Phenomenology, or What its Like to Be a Thing, andPlay Anything: The Pleasure of Limits, the Uses of Boredom, and the Secret of Games. Bogost is also acontributing editor atThe Atlantic, where he writes and edits on science,technology, design and culture. He is also co-editor of thePlatform Studiesbook series,about how the technical design of computing systems influences creativity, and theObjectLessonsbook and essay series, about the secret lives of ordinary things. Bogost joins McKelvey School of Engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology, where he was the Ivan Allen College Distinguished Chair in Media Studies, professor of interactive computing, of architecture, and in the Scheller College of Business. In addition, he was affiliated faculty with the Graphics Visualization and Usability Center; the Center for 21st Century Universities; and for the Center for the Development and Application of Internet of Things Technologies. He also has an adjunct professorship at Brock University in St. Catherines, Ontario, Canada, in the Centre for Digital Humanities. He is a founding partner of and chief designer at Persuasive Games LLC, an independent video game developer, and a contributing editor for The Atlantic. He joined the faculty July 1, 2021. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Division of Engineering Education Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute - professional degrees Technology & Leadership Center - training for industry Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering MSC: 1100-122-303 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2021 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
