Ashis Banerjee | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap Faculty Finder Faculty Finder Ashis Banerjee Associate Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering Associate Professor Mechanical Engineering ashisb@uw.edu (206) 543-5388 MEB 222 Faculty Website Faculty research video Scale-independent Multimodal Automated Real Time Systems (SMARTS) Lab Biography Ashis Banerjee joined the department as an assistant professor in the fall of 2015.Prior to this appointment, he was a research scientist in the Complex Systems Engineering Laboratory at General Electric Global Research, and a postdoctoral associate in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Education Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering, University of Maryland M.S. in Mechanical Engineering, University of Maryland B.Tech. in Manufacturing Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur Research Statement Dr. Banerjee's research focuses on developing automated decision-making methods for cyber-physicalsystems to achieve optimal and robust performances. Such systems include multiple, heterogeneousentities (humans, robots, parts, machines, etc.), and occur at widely varying spatial and temporalscales from controlled micro-bio environments to assembly workstations, warehouses,and smart vehicles. The methods span many disciplines, but fundamentally involve appliedoptimization, machine learning, and stochastic modeling. In particular, principles from Bayesianinference, classification and regression analysis, computational topology, deep neural networks,multi-agent coordination, and reinforcement learning are adapted in novel ways to realize unprecedentedsystem-level performances. Consequently, my research falls into the following three topicsbased on a combination of the target systems and the employed methods: i) Digital manufacturing:Analyze historical data to identify the key drivers affecting various performance measures such as yield, on-time parts deliveries, process defects, and parts mating gaps; ii) Predictive and prescriptive analytics: Predict the responses of time-varying systemsto prescribe optimal resource utilization; and, iii) Autonomous robotics: Develop robust systems where the robots can collaborate with each other and/or humans in challenging environments. Select publications S. Hwang, A. G. Banerjee, and L. N. Boyle. Predicting Driver's Transition Time to a Secondary Task Given an In-Vehicle Alert. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, In Press. J. Liu, S. Hwang, W. Yund, J. D. Neidig, S. M. Hartford, L. N. Boyle, and A. G. Banerjee. A Predictive Analytics Tool to Provide Visibility into Completion of Work Orders in Supply Chain Systems. ASME Journal of Computing and Information Science in Engineering, 20(3): 031003, 2020 S. Hwang, L. N. Boyle, and A. G. Banerjee. Identifying Characteristics that Impact Motor Carrier Safety Using Bayesian Networks, Accident Analysis & Prevention, 128: 40-45, 2019. V. Tereshchuk, J. Stewart, N. Bykov, S. Pedigo, S. Devasia, and A. G. Banerjee. An Efficient Scheduling Algorithm for Multi-Robot Task Allocation in Assembling Aircraft Structures. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 4(4): 3844-3851, 2019. B. Parsa, E. U. Samani, R. Hendrix, C. Devine, S. M. Singh, S. Devasia, and A. G. Banerjee. Toward Ergonomic Risk Prediction via Segmentation of Indoor Object Manipulation Actions Using Spatiotemporal Convolutional Networks. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 4(4): 3153-3160, 2019. N. Rahimi, J. Liu, A. Shishkarev, I. Buzytsky, and A. G. Banerjee. Auction Bidding Methods for Multiagent Consensus Optimization in Supply-Demand Networks. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(4): 4415-4422, 2018. J. Liu, L. N. Boyle, and A. G. Banerjee. Predicting Interstate Motor Carrier Crash Rate Level using Classification Models. Accident Analysis & Prevention, 120: 211-218, 2018. A. G. Banerjee, K. Rajasekaran, and B. Parsa. A Step Toward Learning to Control Tens of Optically Actuated Microrobots in Three Dimensions. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering, Munich, Germany, 1460-1465, 2018. W. Guo, K. Manohar, S. L. Brunton, and A. G. Banerjee. Sparse-TDA: Sparse Realization of Topological Data Analysis for Multi-Way Classification. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 30(7): 1403-1408, 2018. K. Rajasekaran, E. Samani, M. Bollavaram, J. Stewart, and A. G. Banerjee. An Accurate Perception Method for Low Contrast Bright Field Microscopy in Heterogeneous Microenvironments. Applied Sciences, 7(12): 1327, 2017. W. Guo and A. G. Banerjee . Identification of Key Features Using Topological Data Analysis for Accurate Prediction of Manufacturing System Outputs. Journal of Manufacturing Systems, 43(2): 225-234, 2017. A. G. Banerjee , S. Chowdhury, and S. K. Gupta. Optical Tweezers: Autonomous Robots for the Manipulation of Biological Cells. IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, 21(3): 81-88, 2014. J. C. Ryan, A. G. Banerjee , M. L. Cummings, and N. Roy. Comparing the Performance of Expert User Heuristics and an Integer Linear Program in Aircraft Carrier Deck Operations. IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, 44(6): 761-773, 2014. A. G. Banerjee , S. Chowdhury, W. Losert, and S. K. Gupta. Real-Time Path Planning for Coordinated Transport of Multiple Particles using Optical Tweezers. IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, 9(4): 669-678, 2012. Honors & awards Amazon Research Award, 2019 Best QSR Paper Award Finalist, Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences, 2019 Big-on-Small Award Nominee, International Conference on Manipulation, Automation and Robotics at Small Scales, 2019 Top Engineer of the Year, International Association of Top Professionals, 2018 Most Cited Paper Award, Computer-Aided Design Journal, 2012 Best Dissertation Award, University of Maryland Department of Mechanical Engineering, 2009 George Harhalakis Outstanding Systems Engineering Graduate Student Award, University of Maryland Institute for Systems Research, 2009 News Banerjee wins Amazon award Ashis Banerjee has been awarded the prestigious 2019 Amazon Research Award. Read Article Assessing ergonomic risk Ashis Banerjee and a team of researchers developed a system to monitor workers for ergonomic issues. Read Article ISE's Banerjee named Top Engineer Assistant Professor Ashis Banerjee has been recognized by Marquis Whos Who Top Engineers for dedication, achievements and leadership in Industrial, Systems and Mechanical Engineering. Dr. Banerjee has held his current position since 2015, after working with the Complex Systems Engineering Laboratory at the global research division of General Electric for three years. He has also worked with the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Banerjee has found a natural progression to his work with using lasers to control microscopic objects since he arrived in the U.S. for his education, and has found tying science and engineering together to result in new and exciting projects. He is hoping to become a tenured associate professor and a leader in digital manufacturing, particularly smart manufacturing, automated manipulation using laser light, as well as 3D printing on a micro scale. Read Article More News ISE research areas Applied Statistics & Production Systems Research interests Autonomous Mobile Robots Micro-bio Robotics and Automation Human-robot Collaboration Digital Manufacturing Predictive Data Analytics Statistical Learning Courses taught IND E 535: Engineering Simulation IND E 599: Fundamentals of Autonomous Robotic Systems IND E 337: Introduction to Manufacturing Systems Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
