Linda Ng Boyle | UW Civil & Environmental Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Civil & Environmental Engineering Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyCEE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is CEE? Why CEE? Quick Facts Message from the Chair Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion ABET Accreditation Visiting CEE Contact Us Employment Research Research Research Areas Research facilities Research labs and groups Centers Global Research COVID-19 Research Graduate student research News & Events News & Events News Our Stories Events CEE Endowed Lectures The Bridge CEE on Video In the Media People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Academics Staff Student Profiles Future Students Future Students Undergraduates Graduates Online Studies Professional & Certificate Programs K-12 Programs Current Students Current Students Undergraduates Master's Ph.D. Curriculum & Course Planning Resources Careers and Internships Student Clubs Computing Study Abroad Preparing to Graduate Student Advisory Boards Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyCEE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyCEE People People Faculty Linda Ng Boyle Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering Professor Civil & Environmental Engineering Chair, Industrial & System Engineering linda@uw.edu (206) 543-1427 MEB G10A Human Factors and Statistical Modeling Lab CV Biography Linda Ng Boyle is Professor and Chair of ISE and has a joint appointment with Civil & Environmental Engineering. Prior to joining the UW, she was an associate professor at the University of Iowa and a senior researcher at the U.S. Department of TransportationVolpe Center. Dr. Boyle's research centers on driving behavior, crash countermeasures, crash and safety analysis, and statistical modeling. She is the recipient of an NSF Career Award. Her research work has also been funded by the US DOT, NIH, and the National AcademiesTRB.Dr. Boyle is an associate editor for the journal Accident Analysis and Prevention and serves on the Transportation Research Board committees on Simulation and Measurement of Vehicle and Operator Performance and Statistical Methodology in Transportation Research. She also co-organizes the International Driving Symposium on Human Factors in Driver Assessment, Training, and Vehicle Design.Dr. Boyle is the director of theHuman Factors and Statistical Modeling Lab. Education Ph.D. in Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 1998 M.S. in Inter-Engineering, niversity of Washington, Seattle, WA, 1994 B.S. in Industrial Engineering, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, 1986 Previous appointments University of Iowa Research Statement Dr. Boyle's goal centers on enhancing operator safety and reducing injuries and fatalities; Data from various sources is used to quantify human performance and behavior. Honors & awards NSF Career Award, 2007-2013 People Faculty Adjunct & Affiliate Faculty Emeritus Faculty Burges Endowed Visiting Professorship In Memoriam Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Academics Staff Student Profiles CEE research areas Transportation Engineering Research interests Human Factors Driver Behavior Statistical Modeling Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyCEE Sitemap Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Civil & Environmental Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
