Shan Liu | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap Faculty Finder Faculty Finder Shan Liu Associate Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering Adjunct Associate Professor Radiology liushan@uw.edu (206) 543-7593 AER 141E Faculty research video CV (PDF) Biography Dr. Shan Liu joined the department in 2013. Education Ph.D. in Management Science & Engineering, Stanford University, 2013 M.S. in Technology and Policy, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2008 B.S. in Electrical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, 2006 Research Statement Dr. Lius research interests focus on the design and evaluation of healthcare interventions to improve patients health and enable cost-effective care delivery. She develops methods in sequential decision making, decision analytics, and systems modeling to optimize healthcare systems. Her work advances mathematical modelling methods to support complex technology adoption and policy decisions surrounding the prevention and management of diseases. She has received multiple grants from the National Science Foundation to design an integrated decision framework for depression monitoring, and optimize vaccination incentives to prevent infectious disease outbreaks. Dr. Liu has collaborated with the UW Medicine and Global Health, the Stanford Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, the Veteran Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, and the Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute in Seattle. She is a member of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Science (INFORMS), the Society for Medical Decision Making (SMDM), Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE), and the Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society. Select publications Lin Y, Huang S, Simon GE, Liu S. 2019. Cost-effectiveness analysis of prognostic-based depression monitoring. IIE Transactions on Healthcare Systems Engineering 9(1):41-54. Ho T, Liu S, Zabinsky ZB. 2019. A multi-fidelity rollout algorithm for dynamic resource allocation in population disease management. Healthcare Management Science 22(4):727-755. Lin Y, Liu S, Huang S. 2018. Selective sensing of a heterogeneous population of units with dynamic health conditions. IIE Transactions 50 (12):1076-1088. Lin Y, Huang S, Simon GE, and Liu S. 2018. Data-based decision rules to personalize depression follow-up. Scientific Reports 8(1), 5064. Cipriano LE, Goldhaber-Fiebert JD, Liu S, Weber TA. 2018. Optimal information collection policies in a Markov Decision Process framework. MDM 38(7):797-809. Liu S, Brandeau M, Goldhaber-Fiebert JD. 2017. Optimizing patient treatment decisions in an era of rapid technological advances. Healthcare Management Science 20(1):16-32. Lin Y, Huang S, Simon GE, Liu S. 2016. Analysis of depression trajectory patterns using collaborative learning. Mathematical Biosciences 282(2016);191-203. Liu S, Watcha D, Holodniy H, Goldhaber-Fiebert JD. 2014. Sofosbuvir-based treatment regimens for chronic, genotype 1 hepatitis C infections in US incarcerated populations: a cost-effectiveness analysis. Annals of Internal Medicine 161:546-553. Liu S, Cipriano LE, Holodniy M, and Goldhaber-Fiebert JD. 2013. Cost-effectiveness analysis of risk-factor guided and birth-cohort screening for chronic hepatitis C infection in the United States. PLoS One 8(3): e58975. Liu S, Cipriano LE, Holodniy M, Owens DK, and Goldhaber-Fiebert JD. 2012. New protease inhibitors for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C: A cost-effectiveness analysis. Annals of Internal Medicine 156: 279-290. News Liu awarded grant for trauma care study Shan Liu has been awarded a UW Population Health initiative grant to study how to improve trauma care in Washington. Read Article Lowering COVID-19 infections in King County ISE's Shan Liu leads a team developing a model to help lower COVID-19 infections in King County. Read Article More News ISE research areas Operations Research Research interests Optimization Medical Decision Making Healthcare Systems and Policy Modeling Courses taught IND E 250: Fundamentals of Engineering Economy IND E 411: Stochastic Models & Decision Analysis IND E 519: Healthcare Modeling and Decision Making Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
