Christina Mastrangelo | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap Faculty Finder Faculty Finder Christina Mastrangelo Associate Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering Director, Center for Healthcare Organization Transformation mastr@uw.edu (206) 543-5439 AER 141C Center for Healthcare Organization Transformation (CHOT) @ UW Faculty Research Video Biography Associate Professor Mastrangelo joined the department in 2002. Prior to joining the UW, she was an Associate Professor of Systems and Information Engineering at the University of Virginia. Dr.Mastrangelo also has several years of industrial manufacturing experience at AlliedSignal Aerospace, Honeywell IACD and Ion Implant Services. Education Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering, Arizona State University M.S. in Industrial Engineering, Arizona State University B.S. in Industrial Engineering, Arizona State University Research Statement Dr. Mastrangelo's primary research field is systems engineering, quality engineering and predictive analytics. Her research interests include the areas of operational modeling for manufacturing, system-level modeling for infectious disease transmission and lung-cancer screening centers, multivariate quality prediction, statistical monitoring methods for manufacturing and hierarchical response modeling. Dr. Mastrangelo's research involves the application of Industrial Engineering methodologies in healthcare. She is involved in collaborative research with Children's Hospital, Seattle which focuses on the development of an engineering based, systems-level model that will be used to identify and assess alternatives to reduce the risk of infection transmission within pediatric ICUs. She is also the director of the Center for Healthcare Organization Transformation (CHOT) @ UW. CHOT supports the research of major management, clinical, and information technology innovations in healthcare. Dr. Mastrangelos industrial research, sponsored by NSF and the Navy, seeks to understand the effects of lower-level processes on system-level outputs. This is applied to obsolescence management, additive manufacturing, and food chain production. Understanding these models and the effects of competing process models is important to improve productivity, identify and validate quality control parameters, and, ultimately, increase the desired response.Dr. Mastrangelo has published over 20 journal papers in the area of empirical stochastic modeling and statistical process monitoring. One of the papers received the Ellis R. Ott Award for significant contribution to the field of quality engineering. She is a member of ASA, ASEE, ASQ, INCOSE, INFORMS, WEPAN, and a senior member of IISE. Select publications Paul, B., R. Panat, C. Mastrangelo, D. Kim, D. Johnson. Manufacturing of Smart Goods: Current State, Future Potential and Research Recommendations, Submitted to ASME Journal of Micro- and Nano-Manufacturing. Erto, P., G. Pallotta, B. Palumbo, C. Mastrangelo. The Performance of Bayesian Control Charts for Weibull Data Monitoring. Submitted to Quality Technology and Quantitative Management: A Special Issue in Advances in the Theory and Application of Statistical Process Control. Li, Z, Y. Deng, C. Mastrangelo. Bayesian Hierarchical Model Selection for Degradation-based Reliability Prediction. Accepted for publication in Journal of Manufacturing Systems. Gillan, A. and C. Mastrangelo (2012), Monitoring Hospital-Associated Infections with Control Charts. Frontiers in Statistical Quality Control 10, Springer-Verlag, pp . 159-170. Kumar, N., C. Mastrangelo and D.C. Montgomery (2011), Hierarchical Modeling Using Generalized Linear Models, Quality and Reliability Engineering International, 27(6), pp. 835-842. News ISE site of new healthcare center ISE Professor Christina Mastrangelo will lead the new UW site for the Center for Health Organization Transformation. Read Article More News ISE research areas Applied Statistics & Production Systems Research interests Systems Engineering Quality Engineering Predictive Analytics For System Obsolescence Predictive Analytics For Wind Power Reliability Additive manufacturing Healthcare Modeling: Lung Cancer Screening & Hospital-acquired Conditions Multivariate Process Monitoring Courses taught IND E 494: Design in the Manufacturing Firm IND E 495: Industrial Engineering Design IND E 595: Global Integrated Systems Engineering IND E 596: Global Integrated Systems Engineering Project UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
