Zelda Zabinsky | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap Faculty Finder Faculty Finder Zelda Zabinsky Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering Adjunct Professor Electrical & Computer Engineering Adjunct Professor Mechanical Engineering Adjunct Professor Civil & Environmental Engineering zelda@uw.edu (206) 543-4607 MEB G9 Faculty Website Faculty research video Biography Professor Zabinsky joined the department in 1985. She has published numerous papers in the areas of global optimization with algorithm design and complexity analysis. Her book on "Stochastic Adaptive Search in Global Optimization" is available at the publishers web site. Her book was reviewed in Interfaces Vol. 35 Issue 4, 2005. Education Ph.D. in Industrial and Operations Engineering, University of Michigan M.S. in Industrial & Operations Engineering, University of Michigan B.S. in Mathematics, University of Puget Sound Research Statement Dr.Zabinsky has applied optimization and stochastic models to many different engineering applications, including the optimal design of composite structures (for aircraft fuselage), and air traffic flow management. She has worked in supply chain optimization, including inventory management, production, and manufacturing. The stochastic models coupled with optimization lead to problems where risk is important, typically risk of supply not meeting demand. This has been applied to health care systems, and the power grid with renewable generation (e.g., solar panels and wind turbines). She has also worked on applications of operations research in transportation, health care, nanosatellite communications, and forestry.Her work has appeared in Mathematical Programming, Journal of Global Optimization, Operations Research, International Journal of Production Economics, Composite Structures, IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, among other journals. Her research has been funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Boeing Commercial Airplane Company, NASA-Langley, FAA, and Microsoft. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Industrial Engineers, and active in INFORMS (Institute of Operations Research and the Management Science), and the Mathematical Optimization Society. News Zabinsky elected INFORMS fellow INFORMS has recognized Professor Zelda Zabinsky for lifetime achievement in operations research. Read Article More News ISE research areas Operations Research Research interests Global Optimization With Uncertainty Optimization and Meta-control Simulation Optimization Air Traffic Management Applications in Health Care, Power Grid With Renewables, Nanosatellites, and Manufacturing Power Grid With Renewables Nanosatellites Courses taught IND E 410: Linear and Network Programming IND E 411: Stochastic Models and Decision Analysis IND E 513: Linear Optimization IND E 516: Applications of Optimization in Engineering Design Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
