Prashanth Rajivan | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap Faculty Finder Faculty Finder Prashanth Rajivan Assistant Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering prajivan@uw.edu (206) 543-8956 AER 141D Biography Assistant Professor Rajivan joined the department in 2018. Education Ph.D. in Human Systems Engineering, Arizona State University, 2014 M.S. in Computing Studies, Arizona State University, 2011 B.Tech. in Information Technology, Anna University, Chennai, India, 2007 Previous appointments Postdoctoral Researcher, Dynamic Decision Making Laboratory, Carnegie Mellon University Postdoctoral Researcher, School of Informatics, Indiana University Bloomington Research Statement Humans, just as much as technology, are at the crux of many of our cyber security challenges, as both the problem and the solution. Humans are the instigators (i.e., adversaries), the weakest links (i.e., end-users) and, the defenders who anticipate, plan, and execute responses to emerging threats (i.e., security analyst). Therefore, solutions to cyber security challenges must adequately address these different human dimensions of security.Prashanth examines how human behavior affects information security and privacy to develop models of effective interventions that reduce the risk from attacks and promote safe behaviors online. His research aims to characterize adversarial behaviors, and strategies to inform incident response; measure teamwork and decision-making of security analysts to augment security defense performance; and, uncover biases in end-user decision-making that compromise security and privacy.Prashanth's dissertation work was a finalist for the Human Factors Prize on Cyber Security in 2017. He received the Best Student Paper Award for his work on multiagent models of teamwork in cyber defense at the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society annual conference in 2014. His professional activities include journal review for Computers in Human Behavior, Human Factors and Cognitive Engineering and Decision Making. Select publications Rajivan, P., & Gonzalez, C. (2018). Creative Persuasion: A study on adversarial behaviors and strategies in phishing attacks. Frontiers in psychology, 9, 135. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.00135 Curtis, S., Rajivan, P., Gonzalez, C., & Jones, D. (2018). Phishing attempts among the Dark Triad: Patterns of attack and vulnerability. Computers in Human behaviors, 87, 174-182. Harding, Rajivan, P., Bertenthal, B., & Gonzalez, C. (2018, July). Human Decisions on Targeted and Non-Targeted Adversarial Samples. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society. Rajivan, P., & Cooke, N. J. (2018). Information Pooling Bias in Collaborative Security Incident Correlation Analysis. Human Factors, 60(5), 626-639. Buchler, N., Rajivan, P., Marusich, L., Lightner, L., & Gonzalez, C. (2018). Sociometrics and Observational Assessment of Teaming and Leadership in a Cyber Security Defense Competition. Journal of Computer & Security, 73, 114-136. Rajivan, P., Moriano, P., Kelley, T., & Camp, L. J. (2017). Factors in an end user security expertise instrument. Information & Computer Security, 25(2), 190-205. Rajivan, P., & Cooke, N. J., (2017). On the Impact of Team Collaboration on Cybersecurity Situational Awareness. Theory and Models for Cyber Situation Awareness. Springer Rajivan, P., Jannsen, M., & Cooke, N.J. (2013). Agent Based Model of Cyber Defense Analyst Team. Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting. 57, 314-318. Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications. Rajivan, P., Champion, M., Cooke, N. J., Jariwala, S., Dube, G., & Buchanan, V. (2013). Effects Teamwork versus Group Work on Signal Detection in Cyber Defense Teams. In Foundations of Augmented Cognition (pp. 172-180). Springer Berlin Heidelberg. News The human factors of improving cybersecurity ISEs Prashanth Rajivan discusses the human factors he researches so we can manage our cybersecurity better. Read Article More News ISE research areas Human Factors & Ergonomics Research interests Cyber Security Modeling and Simulation Courses taught IND E 250 Engineering Economics IND E 338 Simulation IND E 599 Modeling and Simulation of Complex Adaptive Systems Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
