Diversity | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap About About Diversity Diversity Everyone has a home in Industrial & Systems Engineering (ISE). ISE faculty and staff are committed to fostering an inclusive learning community. We celebrate diverse perspectives because they can lead to a high-quality educational experience. About half of our faculty are women, and our students have held leadership positions in various student groups including the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, National Society of Black Engineers,Women in Science and Engineering, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Minority Scholars Engineering Program. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core to being an industrial and systems engineer. Our goal is to design complex systems that can be utilized by all people. It is therefore imperative that our graduates have a keen understanding and appreciation for diverse needs and ideas. We welcome students of all races, ethnicities, national origins, gender identities, religions, sexual orientations, abilities/disabilities, ages, socioeconomic backgrounds, military status, and other identities not listed. We uphold the values of diversity, equity, and inclusion, and do not tolerate racism in any form. If you see bias in action or know of anyone facing it, please speak up and let your professors or academic advisors know. In addition, the following resources are available on campus. Reporting Resources BiasReporting Tool SafeCampus Health and Wellness CounselingCenter Students Staff& Faculty Diversity Webpages Diversity at the UW UW Groups and activities College of Engineering Diversity & Access About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Global Student Connections Contact & Directions Employment Undocumented student resources The UW and the State of Washington welcome and support undocumented students of all ethnicities and nationalities. Services and resources available to undocumented students include: Northwest Immigrant Rights Project Leadership Without Borders Center Also read: UW policy on undocumented students UW President Ana Mari Cauce's statement: Standing Together WA executive order on immigration enforcement Contact ISE ISE Directory Phone: 206-543-1427 Fax: 206-685-3072 UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
