Linda Ng Boyle | Industrial & Systems Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Industrial & Systems Engineering Wordmark Logo MyISE Sitemap UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is ISE? Quick Facts Chair's welcome Why ISE at UW? ABET Accreditation Diversity Contact & Directions Employment People People Faculty Adjunct, Affiliate and Emeritus Faculty Staff Quick directory External Advisory Board Research Research Research Labs and Centers Undergraduate Senior Design Projects News and events News and events News Professional practice seminar series (IND E 491) Graduate seminar series ISE Calendar Admission Admission Undergraduates Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE) Master of Industrial & Systems Engineering (MISE) Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering Certificate Programs Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Students Students Undergraduates Master of Science Master of Engineering Ph.D. Graduation celebration Certificate Programs Student Groups Jobs and internships Industry Industry Alumni Alumni Give to ISE Alumni Spotlights Additional Links Additional Links MyISE Sitemap Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyISE Sitemap Faculty Finder Faculty Finder Linda Ng Boyle Professor Industrial & Systems Engineering Professor Civil & Environmental Engineering Chair, Industrial & System Engineering linda@uw.edu (206) 543-1427 MEB G10A Human Factors and Statistical Modeling Lab Biography Linda Ng Boyle joined the Department as an associate professor in the fall of 2009. Prior to this appointment, she was an associate professor at the University of Iowa and a senior researcher at the U.S. Department of TransportationVolpe Center. Education Ph.D. in Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Washington M.S. in Industrial Engineering/Inter-Engineering, University of Washington B.S. in Industrial Engineering from State University of New York at Buffalo Research Statement Dr. Boyle's research centers on driving behavior, crash countermeasures, crash and safety analysis, and statistical modeling. She is the recipient of an NSF Career Award. Her research work has also been funded by the US DOT, NIH, and the National AcademiesTRB. Dr. Boyle is an associate editor for the journal Accident Analysis and Prevention and serves on the Transportation Research Board committees on Simulation and Measurement of Vehicle and Operator Performance and Statistical Methodology in Transportation Research. She also co-organizes the International Driving Symposium on Human Factors in Driver Assessment, Training, and Vehicle Design.Dr. Boyle is the director of the Human Factors and Statistical Modeling Lab. Select publications Miller, E., Boyle, L.N. (2015). Driver's Behavior in Road Tunnels: Association with Driver Stress and Performance. Transportation Research Record, 2518, 60-67. Neyens, D.M., Boyle, L.N., Schultheis, M. (2015). The effects of driver distractions for individuals with traumatic brain injuries. Human Factors, 57, 8, 1472-1488. Wu, Y., Boyle, L.N., McGehee, D., Roe, C., Ebu, K., Foley, J. (2015). Modeling types of pedal applications using a driving simulator. Human Factors, 57, 7, 1276-1288. Peng, Y., Boyle, L.N., (2015). Driver's adaptive glance behavior to in-vehicle information systems, Accident Analysis and Prevention, 85, 93-101. ISE research areas Human Factors & Ergonomics Research interests Adaptation To Vehicle Automation And In-vehicle Technology Human-System Interactions In Manufacturing Courses taught IND E 315: Probability and Statistics for Engineers IND E 316: Design of Experiments and Regression Analysis IND E 321: Statistical Quality Control IND E 351: Human Factors in Design IND E 498: Professional Practice in ISE IND E 546: Analytical Methods in Transportation IND E 549: Human Factors in Engineering Design Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: College of Engineering Log in Sitemap MyISE Privacy Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Industrial & Systems Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
