Sheryl Grace, Ph.D. | College of Engineering Latest COVID-19 Information College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study Bioengineering Technology & Entrepreneurship Center (BTEC) Engineering Product Innovation Center Singh Imagineering Lab (Tinker) ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Inclusion and Outreach ENG Strategic Plan 2021 More Leadership and Administration Directory Undergraduate Enrollment and Degrees News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Sheryl Grace Associate Professor (ME) Office 110 Cummington Mall, ENG 407 Email sgrace@bu.edu Phone (617) 353-7364 Website Unsteady Fluid Mechanics & Acoutsics Laboratory (UFMAL) Associate Professor (ME) Education Ph.D., University of Notre Dame Biography Research Interests Aerodynamics * Fluid dynamics * Acoustics Professor Graces interests lie in the fields of unsteady aerodynamics and aeroacoustics. She focuses on creating analytical and computational models of the mechanics which create sound and vibration. She is most interested in applications in which the vibration and sound result from the interactions of unsteady flows past solid bodies, such as for aircraft external structures and marine and aircraft propulsion systems. Her analyses are intended to be used as predictive tools in the design of next generation systems, and they offer a less expensive mode of prediction as compared to experiment. Three examples of physical applications her research group has considered in the past are the noise generated by high-lift wing systems, the effect of vane clocking in turbines, and the vibration and sound generated when flow passes over wall apertures and cavities. The first is of great interest to commercial airline design, the second impacts blade fatigue in aircraft engines, and the third has a wide variety of applications ranging from the design of high speed trains to new configurations for better cooling in computer chips. Recently, Professor Graces group has also done research related to gerbil hearing. In particular, a computational acoustic scattering model of the gerbil ear was created to analyze the head-related transfer function which describes how a given source of sound interacts with the gerbil ear when the gerbil is in a given environment. Publications A complete list of publications by year. A complete list of publications by number of citations. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube
