Michael Gevelber, Ph.D. | College of Engineering Latest COVID-19 Information College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study Bioengineering Technology & Entrepreneurship Center (BTEC) Engineering Product Innovation Center Singh Imagineering Lab (Tinker) ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Inclusion and Outreach ENG Strategic Plan 2021 More Leadership and Administration Directory Undergraduate Enrollment and Degrees News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Michael Gevelber Associate Professor (ME, MSE, SE) Office 15 St. Marys St., EMB 134 Email gevelber@bu.edu Phone (617) 353-9693 Website Advanced Materials Process Control Laboratory Associate Professor (ME, MSE, SE) Primary Appointment Mechanical Engineering Education Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology Additional Affiliations Division of Materials Science & Engineering Division of Systems Engineering Areas of Interest Modeling and control for advanced materials processing applications and sustainable buildings: Electro-spinning of nanofibers, Plasma spray, Optimization of Building HVAC systems, Building Energy Use Research Areas Professor Gevelbers engineering research focuses on developing enhanced materials processing capabilities though modeling, sensor development, experimentation, and integrated system and control design. Research in his Advanced Materials Process Control Laboratory has focused on designing and implementing real time control for a variety of materials processing systems and includes production scale equipment for electron beam deposition, plasma spray, crystal growth, and electrospinning. Current research projects include electrospinning of nanofibers and plasma spray for thermal barrier coatings and fuel cells. In terms of sustainability, his research includes improving energy efficiency of buildings including developing a new system identification approach that helps optimize air flow in existing commercial buildings, and conducting energy assessments for urban housing and universities. Professor Gevelber has lead a class which has conducted the first detailed energy audit for the Boston Universitys Campus, which included identifying and implementing possible conservation options. He serves on the universitys Sustainability Committee, co-chairs the universitys energy working group, is a member of the universities Clean Energy and Environmental Initiative, which is focused on integrating the research efforts across the various colleges on campus, and serves on Newtons Energy Commission. Professor Gevelber is a participating faculty member of the division of materials science and engineering (MSE) and an affiliated faculty member in the Division of Systems Engineering (SE). He is also the founder and manager of Cyber Materials LLC, which develops advanced control solutions to improve manufacturing processes, and a co-founder of Aeolus Building Efficiency, winner of the 2013 energy efficiency track of the MIT Clean Energy Contest. Biography Selected Patents M.A. Gevelber, D. Wroblewski, Feedback Enhanced Plasma Spray Tool: molten plasma flux control , 5/31/2011, U.S. Patent 7,952,047. B. Vattiat, D. Wroblewski, M. Gevelber, Plasma State and Flux Sensor, 9/6/2011, U.S. Patent 8,013,994. D. Wroblewski, M. Gevelber, P. Gallagher, Automated technique of measuring room air change rates in HVAC system, U.S., PCT Application filed Nov. 17, 2012, PCT/US12/65786. PublicationsView a complete list of publications chronologically by year.View a complete list of publications by citation.Affiliation: Affiliated Faculty (SE), Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME), Primary & Affiliated Faculty (MSE), Primary & Affiliated Faculty (SE), Primary Faculty (MSE), Boston University College of Engineering Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube
