Stormy Attaway, Ph.D. | College of Engineering Latest COVID-19 Information College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study Bioengineering Technology & Entrepreneurship Center (BTEC) Engineering Product Innovation Center Singh Imagineering Lab (Tinker) ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Inclusion and Outreach ENG Strategic Plan 2021 More Leadership and Administration Directory Undergraduate Enrollment and Degrees News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Stormy Attaway Assistant Professor (ME) Office 110 Cummington Mall, Room ENG 112 Email sa@bu.edu Phone (617) 353-5224 Assistant Professor (ME) Education Ph.D., Boston University Areas of Interest Educational methods * Computer programming for engineers Stormy Attaway, MATLAB: A Practical Introduction to Programming and Problem Solving, Third Edition, pp.538+x, Burlington, MA, Elsevier Inc., 2013. Stormy Attaway, Using MATLAB to Teach Programming to First-Year Engineering Students at Boston University, MathWorks News & Notes, 2010. Stormy Attaway, The Boundary Element Method for the Diffusion Equation: A Feasibility Study in Boundary Integral Methods, Theory and Applications, Morino and Piva, eds. Springer-Verlad, 1991. Research Areas Professor Attaway coordinates and teaches the introductory engineering course for freshmen. Using MATLAB as the platform for instruction, she uses the approach of teaching basic programming concepts and the efficient use of built-in functions side-by-side. In 2009, she published a book detailing this innovative approach. Professor Attaway is the Director of Curricular Assessment and Improvement for the College of Engineering. In this capacity, she coordinates the curricular assessment and improvement programs within the College, in order to better the academic experience of the undergraduates. In 2014, Professor Attaway was the winner of the Metcalf Cup and Prize, the Universitys highest teaching honor. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube
