Steve Chomyszak | College of Engineering Latest COVID-19 Information College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study Bioengineering Technology & Entrepreneurship Center (BTEC) Engineering Product Innovation Center Singh Imagineering Lab (Tinker) ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Inclusion and Outreach ENG Strategic Plan 2021 More Leadership and Administration Directory Undergraduate Enrollment and Degrees News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Steve Chomyszak Professor of the Practice Office 730 Commonwealth Ave, Room 202F Email schomysz@bu.edu Phone 617-353-2843 Professor of the Practice Primary Appointment Mechanical Engineering Education M.S., Stanford University Biography Professor Stephen Chomyszak holds a degree in Industrial Design from Syracuse University and a M.S. General Engineering from Stanford University. He combined creativity with technology and started a company, Mechanology, to develop machinery used in the renewable and reclaimed energy sectors. He holds U.S. and International patents and invented and developed novel technology under contract with various government agencies and commercial clients for uses in automotive fuel cells, combined heat and power, solar thermal, two-phase fluid expansion, compressed air energy storage, and industrial air compression. Professor Chomyszak then moved to academia where he became the Roberts Endowed Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Wentworth Institute of Technology, Boston, MA. While at WIT, he was also the Director of EPIC Learning (Externally-collaborative, Project-based, Interdisciplinary, Curriculum) and founded a state-of-the-art Additive Manufacturing center. He was part of a team of educators who worked with Stratasys Corporation to develop a college level course in Additive Manufacturing and was amongst the first people in the United States to teach the course. Professor Chomyszak was also a faculty ambassador to Accelerate, WITs innovation and entrepreneurship program, where he worked closely with students who had entrepreneurial interests. Expanding on his interest in Additive Manufacturing, he returned to industry to become a Mechanical Engineering Manager at Formlabs, Inc. where he led a team of 15 mechanical engineers to a successful launch of Formlabs Fuse 1 SLS 3D printer. However, Professor Chomyszak loves to teach and returned to academia as a Professor of the Practice at BU with over 30 years of experience in entrepreneurship, design, engineering, manufacturing, management, and teaching experience. In his spare time, he dabbles with engine design, piano composition, and riding dirt bikes. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube
