MechE Open Faculty Positions | College of Engineering Latest COVID-19 Information College of Engineering Menu Mechanical Engineering Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study Bioengineering Technology & Entrepreneurship Center (BTEC) Engineering Product Innovation Center Singh Imagineering Lab (Tinker) ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Inclusion and Outreach ENG Strategic Plan 2021 More Leadership and Administration Directory Undergraduate Enrollment and Degrees News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall MechE Open Faculty Positions ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN EMERGING AREAS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING The College of Engineering at Boston University has embarked on a bold new strategic plan that will pursue excellence and impact along six convergent and collaborative research themes: (1) Intelligent, Autonomous and Secure Systems, (2) Synthetic Biology, Tissue Engineering and Mechanobiology, (3) Energy, Sustainability and Climate, (4) Materials by Design (5) Photonics and Optical Systems, and (6) Neuroengineering, Neuroinformatics, and Neuroscience. The Department of Mechanical Engineering (MechE) is conducting a search at the Assistant Professor rank. We welcome applications from candidates focused on Emerging Areas of Mechanical Engineering, including, but not limited to: (1) the nexus of energy, resource management, and sustainability (2) sustainable water initiatives that involve nanofluidics and (3) computational mechanics of matter. Boston University is an AAU institution with a rich tradition of inclusion and social justice and a commitment to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in engineering. We are proud that we were the first American university to award a PhD to a woman. The enhancement of diversity and inclusion in engineering is a foundational initiative in the College of Engineerings new strategic plan. BUs MechE department has a long history of leadership and collaboration in its core areas of Biomechanics; Matter; Micro/Nanoengineering (MEMS/NEMS) and Robotics and Autonomous Systems. We attract exceptional graduate students and talented faculty at all levels. Our faculty lead and participate in several high-profile, multidisciplinary research centers, including the new Center for Multiscale and Translational Mechanobiology, the Hariri Institute for Computing and Computational Science and Engineering, the Center for Information and Systems Engineering, BUs NSF Engineering Research Center in Cellular Metamaterials, the Kilachand Center for Integrated Life Science and Engineering, BU Nano Center, and the Photonics Center. Leading Assistant Professor tenure-track candidates would hold a PhD in Mechanical Engineering or a related field and would be prepared to conduct an experimental and/or computational research program that would complement and enhance the existing strengths in the Mechanical Engineering Department. We are explicitly looking for candidates who have an interest in the societal impact of their research Applicants should submit 1) a cover letter that describes your research/creative and teaching interests; 2) a teaching statement that describes your teaching philosophy and experience, 3) a diversity statement that describes how you, through your teaching and/or scholarship, will contribute to our goal to engender a more inclusive and diverse environment, 4) a statement of research accomplishments and goals including how a focus on collaborative and convergent research can affect your research impact, 5) a current CV and 6) three references with their contact information. We encourage candidates to apply early, as we will begin reviewing applications on November 19, 2021. Applications received by December 17, 2021 will be given full consideration. To apply, visit https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/18965 Contact Us: Alice White, Department Chair Boston University College of Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering 110 Cummington Mall, Room 101 Boston, MA 02215 APPLY FOR ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Boston University is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. We are a VEVRAA Federal Contractor. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN ENERGY, SUSTAINABILITY, AND CLIMATE IN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING The College of Engineering (COE) at Boston University (BU) has embarked on a bold new strategic plan that will pursue excellence and impact along six convergent research themes: (1) Intelligent, Autonomous and Secure Systems, (2) Synthetic Biology, Tissue Engineering, and Mechanobiology, (3) Energy, Sustainability and Climate, (4) Materials by Design (5) Photonics and Optical Systems, and (6) Neuroengineering, Neuroinformatics, and Neuroscience. As part of the Energy, Sustainability, and Climate theme, the COE at BU is searching for tenure-track faculty candidates at the Assistant Professor level, whose research interests align with one or more of the following areas: 1) Energy storage: Experimental/computational research and/or life cycle analysis of batteries or alternate systems for grid-level storage, energy storage for electric vehicle (EV) applications including inductive charging of EVs, and efficient generation and storage of hydrogen. 2) Sustainable networks and computing: Smart power grid, including integration of distributed renewable generation, EV charging demands, or cyber-physical elements to the power grid; sustainable power or transportation networks for smart cities as well as their physical and economic interactions; and design of energy-efficient computing and communication systems and the optimization and integration of these systems with the smart grid. Boston University is an AAU institution with a rich tradition of inclusion and social justice and a commitment to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in engineering. We are proud that we were the first American university to award a PhD to a woman. The enhancement of diversity and inclusion in engineering is a foundational initiative in the College of Engineerings new strategic plan. This is a College of Engineering wide search, and the candidate will have a primary appointment in either the Mechanical Engineering (ME) or Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) departments. Cross-cutting research interests leading to secondary appointment(s) in another ENG department, Physics, Chemistry, and/or a Division (Materials Science and Engineering or Systems Engineering) would be encouraged. Interactions with the Institute for Sustainable Energy (ISE), the Sustainable Research Institute (SRI), the Center for Information and Systems Engineering, and/or the Hariri Institute for Computing and Computational Science and Engineering are highly encouraged. The COE believes that the cultural and social diversity of our faculty, staff, and students is vitally important to the distinction and excellence of our research and academic programs. To that end, we are especially eager to have a colleague who supports our institutional commitment to ensuring BU is inclusive, equitable, diverse, and a place where all constituents can thrive join our ranks. Leading Assistant Professor tenure-track candidates will hold a PhD in Engineering or a related field, and will be prepared to conduct a research program that would complement and enhance the strengths of the COE. Candidates will be expected to teach courses at the graduate and undergraduate level in their home department and in cross-college courses. We are explicitly looking for candidates who have an interest in the Societal Impact of their research. We encourage candidates to apply early. Applications received by December 15, 2021, will be given full consideration. Please submit 1) a cover letter that describes how your research and teaching interests fit within the interdisciplinary mission of the College of Engineering and how youthrough your teaching and/or scholarshipwill contribute to our goals to engender a more inclusive and diverse college, 2) a research statement, 3) CV, 4) a teaching statement, and 5) three letters of recommendation. To apply, visit https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/19227 Contact Us: Emily Ryan, Search Chair Boston University College of Engineering 44 Cummington Mall Boston, MA 02215 APPLY FOR ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Boston University is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. We are a VEVRAA Federal Contractor. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN MATERIAL INFORMATICS IN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING The College of Engineering at Boston University seeks applicants for a tenure-track assistant professor to begin in the academic year 2022/2023 in the broad area of materials informatics. The College of Engineering at Boston University has embarked on a bold new strategic plan that recognizes the power of convergent and collaborative research among a diverse set of faculty. This faculty search is focused on the convergent theme of Materials by Design. With the rise of large curated datasets (e.g. Materials Genome Initiative), powerful computational tools to enable the exploration of vast parameter spaces, and approaches for mining unstructured data from the literature, there are a number of transformative new techniques being brought to bear in the area of of Materials Informatics. This blend of data science and materials science can complement many existing experimental, computational, and theoretical efforts in the College of Engineering, as these approaches are equally applicable to hard and soft matter and can be used to study, and potentially design, new materials with tailored mechanical, biological, electrical, and optical properties. We are interested in all facets of materials informatics including theory, computation, and experiment. This is a College of Engineering wide search, and the candidate will have a primary appointment in the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) or Mechanical Engineering (ME) or Biomedical Engineering (BME) departments. We anticipate that the candidate will also have an appointment in the Division of Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) and perhaps the Division of Systems Engineering (SE). The Colleges cross-cutting Divisions engage faculty from all cognate disciplines. The candidate may also have an appointment in the newly founded, university-wide Faculty of Computing and Data Sciences. Leading Assistant Professor tenure-track candidates will hold a PhD in Engineering or a related field, and will be prepared to conduct a research program that would complement and enhance the strengths of the COE. Candidates will be expected to teach courses at the graduate and undergraduate level in their home department and in cross-college courses. We are explicitly looking for candidates who have an interest in the Societal Impact of their research. Boston University is an AAU institution with a rich tradition of inclusion and social justice and a commitment to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in engineering. We are proud that we were the first American university to award a PhD to a woman. The enhancement of diversity and inclusion in engineering is a foundational initiative in the College of Engineerings new strategic plan. Applicants should submit 1) a cover letter that describes your research/creative and teaching interests; 2) a teaching statement that describes your teaching philosophy and experience, 3) a diversity statement that describes how you, through your teaching and/or scholarship, will contribute to our goal to engender a more inclusive and diverse environment, 4) a statement of research accomplishments and goals including how a focus on collaborative and convergent research can affect your research impact, 5) a current CV and 6) three references, including their contact information. To apply, visit https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/19037 We encourage candidates to apply early. Applications received by December 15, 2021 will be given full consideration. Contact Us: Keith Brown, Search Chair Boston University College of Engineering 44 Cummington Mall Boston, MA 02215 APPLY FOR ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Boston University is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. We are a VEVRAA Federal Contractor. Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering About MechE MechE is Hiring MechE Masters Program | Accepting Applications Prospective Graduate Prospective Undergraduate Degree Programs Student Experience Research People Resources | Students Resources | Faculty & Staff Reserve a Room News Events Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Stay ConnectedStay connected with Mechanical Engineering LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Facebook Boston University College of Engineering Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube
