:: Chang K. Choi :: Don't hesitate to ask anything to us! Dr. Chang Kyoung (CK) Choi is an assistant professor of Mechanical Engineering-Engineering Mechanics at Michigan Technological University. Prior to this appointment in 2009, he was a post-doctoral researcher at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) from Jan. 2008 to Dec. 2008. He received his B.S. and M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Chung-ang University in 1999 and 2001, respectively. He received a PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Tennessee-Knoxville in 2007. Right after his doctoral graduation, he continued and expanded his research areas by working in three different fields of Mechanical Engr., Biomedical, Engr., and Biology as a post-doc in UT-Knoxville. His research interests are microscale heat transfer, micro-fluidics,..... More Dr. Choi is an experimentalist interested in the following areas: Opto-electric Cellular Sensing, Microfluidics and Microscale Heat Transfer, Droplet Impingement on Patterned Metal Surfaces, Evaporation of Thin Films and Droplets, Multiscale Interface Phenomena, Chemotaxis, and Fluid Flow-induced Shear Effect on Chondrons. He is particularly interested in developing a versatile and highly capable multimodality imaging system coupled with the culture platform in order to make in vitro data collection even more comprehensive. His expertise areas are Microscopic Imaging Techniques, Micro-/nano-fabricaions, and Cellular Sensing & Singe Protein Tracking. ....More Microscale Electrical and Optical Sensing (micro-EOS) Laboratory MEEM 1002 (main) MEEM 1005 (Photolithography room) MEEM 1006 (Cell Culture room) Collaboration: On campus: Dr. Allen, Dr. Friedrich, Dr. Parker Off campus: Dr. Seung J. Baek at UTK, Dr. Doktycz and Dr. Retterer at ORNL, Dr. Seunghyuk Lee at Chung-ang University in Seoul, Korea...... More Opening New Laboratory of "micro-EOS: microscale electrical and optical sensing laboratory" . He is looking for two undergraduate students He is currently working with three doctoral and one master students. Two visitng scholars are working with Dr. Choi. More Chang K. Choi, Ph.D,Assistant Professor.,Mechanical Engineering-Engineering Mechanics
