Dynamics, Systems & Control Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyResearch GroupsDynamics, Systems & Control Dynamics, Systems & Control Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Scott Banks Professor (352) 392-6109work banks@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Banks has been active in orthopaedic and joint mechanics research his entire career. He is a member of several professional societies including ASME, the Knee Society, the American Society for Biomechanics and the Orthopaedic Research Society. Professor Banks served as President and annual conference host for the International Society for Technology in Arthroplasty in 2013, and remains a member of the Board of Directors. View Profile Prabir Barooah Professor (352) 294-0411work pbarooah@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Barooah received his Ph.D. in 2007 from the University of California, Santa Barbara. From 1999 to 2002 he was a research engineer at United Technologies Research Center, East Hartford, CT. He received the M. S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Delaware in 1999 and the B.Tech degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in 1996. View Profile John W. Conklin Associate Professor (352) 392-0614work jwconklin@ufl.eduINTERNET John Conklin is an Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He joined the UF faculty in 2012 after a three-year research associateship at the W.W. Hansen Experimental Physics Laboratory at Stanford. He received his BS and MEng degrees from Cornell and PhD from Stanford in 2009. In 2011, John was the Fulbright Junior Lecturer at the University of Trento in Italy. View Profile Carl D. Crane, III Professor (352) 219-6433work ccrane@ufl.eduINTERNET Carl D. Crane is a Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Director of the Center for Intelligent Machines and Robotics (CIMAR) at the University of Florida. He received his B.S. and M.E. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1978 and 1979. Following this he spent five years as an officer in the Army Corps of Engineers. View Profile Warren Dixon Deans Leadership Professor and Department Chair (352) 846-1463work chair@mae.ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. Warren Dixon received his Ph.D. in 2000 from Clemson University. He worked as a research staff member and Eugene P. Wigner Fellow at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) until 2004, when he joined the University of Florida in the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department, where he is now an Ebaugh Professor and Department Chair. His main research interest has been the development and application of Lyapunov-based control techniques for uncertain nonlinear systems. View Profile Norman G. Fitz-coy Associate Professor (352) 392-1029work nfc@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1990, Auburn University Research Interests Dynamics and control of multibody systems, game theory, orbital dynamics, flight mechanics. View Profile Prashant Ganesh Research Assistant Engineer (850) 833-9350 ext 255work prashant.ganesh@ufl.eduINTERNET Prashant Ganesh received his M.S. degree in Aerospace Engineer from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 2017 and his B.E in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Anna University in Chennai, India in 2014. He manages the Autonomous Vehicles Lab an AFRL funded lab located at UF REEF. His research involves developing guidance, navigation and controls solutions for single and multiple agents in a GPS denied/degraded environment and deploying them on a team of flying and ground robots to validate them. View Profile Dan Guralnik Research Assistant Scientist danguralnik@ufl.eduINTERNET Dan Guralnik received his Ph.D. from the Technion-IIT Mathematics department in 2005, specializing in Geometric Group Theory. After post-doctoral appointments at Vanderbilt University and University of Oklahoma, where he worked on asymptotic geometry and boundary dynamics of discrete groups, he moved in 2011 to a post-doctoral appointment at KodLab, the legged locomotion laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania, to start work on applications of topology and category theory to problems of knowledge representation in the context of navigation and control. View Profile Matthew T. Hale Assistant Professor (352) 294-0436work matthewhale@ufl.eduINTERNET Matthew Hale received his BSE summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received his MS and PhD from Georgia Tech. His work is driven by designing and analyzing multi-agent coordination algorithms that function well under challenging conditions, such as asynchronous information sharing, noisy communications, and user privacy requirements. His work deploys these algorithms on teams of flying and ground robots, providing both validation of the underlying theory and further research directions. View Profile Yong Huang Professor (352) 392-5520work yongh@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Yong Huang is a professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, and Materials Science and Engineering. His research interests are two-fold: 1) processing of biological and engineering materials for healthcare/energy applications, and 2) understanding of dynamic material behavior during manufacturing and process-induced damage or defect structures. He served as the Technical Program Chair for the 2010 American Society of Mechanical Engineers International Manufacturing Science and Engineering Conference (ASME MSEC 2010) and the 2012 International Symposium on Flexible Automation (ISFA 2012). View Profile Richard C. Lind Associate Professor ricklind@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering, 1995, University of Minnesota Research Interests aeroservoelasticity, morphing, controls, flight testing View Profile Gary K. Matthew Associate Professor Emeritus (352) 392-0961work gmatthew@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1980, University of Florida,Research InterestsKinematics, Dynamics, Computer-aided design. View Profile Amor A. Menezes Assistant Professor (352) 294-0470work amormenezes@ufl.eduINTERNET Amor A. Menezes is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, an affiliate of the J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Biomedical Engineering, an affiliate of the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, and a member of the Institute for Cell & Tissue Science and Engineering at the University of Florida. His group applies dynamical systems theory and control engineering methods in the fields of systems biology and synthetic biology. View Profile Gary Miller Courtesy Professor, Exactech, Inc. and External Advisory Board Member (352) 377-1140work View Profile Kamran Mohseni W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor (352) 273-1834work mohseni@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Mohseni received his Ph.D. in 2000 from California Institute of Technology. After a year as a Postdoc in Control and Dynamical Systems at Caltech he joined the Aerospace Engineering Sciences department at the University of Colorado in Boulder as an Assistant Professor. Professor Mohseni joined the University of Florida as W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor in MAE and ECE departments in 2011. View Profile Patrick Musgrave Assistant Professor 352-392-6230work pmusgrave@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Patrick Musgrave received his PhD from Virginia Tech in 2018 and BSc & BSE from the University of Pittsburgh in 2012. Dr. Musgraves research focuses on adaptive and morphing systems operating in fluidic environments, in particular systems subject to dynamic fluid-structure interactions. These systems are inherently multi-physical and sit at the intersection of structures, hydro/aerodynamics, mechatronics, smart materials, and controls. View Profile Anil V. Rao Professor and Erich Farber Faculty Fellow (352) 392-5523work anilvrao@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Rao earned his Ph.D. in mechanical and aerospace engineering from Princeton University, his M.S.E. in aerospace engineering from the University of Michigan, and his B.S. in mechanical engineering and A.B. in mathematics from Cornell University. Professor Raos research interests lie in the area of control and optimization of space and air vehicles and combine the development of new computational methods for optimal control with novel applications including space mission planning, performance optimization of atmospheric flight vehicles, and other vehicular control problems (for example, high performance ground and underwater vehicles). View Profile John K. Schueller Professor (352) 392-0822work schuejk@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. John K. Schueller received his Ph.D. from Purdue University in 1983. He is a generalist with some concentration in manufacturing and in off-highway vehicles and equipment. He is a Fellow of ASABE, IAABE, and SAE and holds Founder, Life, and/or Senior Member status in ASME, EurAgEng, IEEE, ISAE, and SME. Prof. Schueller is the Chair Editor-in-Chief of Computers and Electronics in Agriculture and serves on the Management Committee of the Club of Bologna. View Profile Jane Jaejeong Shin Assistant Professor 352-392-3140work jshin2@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Yu Wang Assistant Professor 352-846-3599work yuwang1@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Gloria J. Wiens Associate Professor (352) 392-0806work gwiens@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Wiens is currently conducting research in the area of human-robot collaboration for smart factory, integrating AI with robot control in providing augmented intelligence of robots interacting with humans, other robots and machines. She has also been conducting research in the areas of intelligent and autonomous robotic systems, innovative mechanisms and controls for automation, space robotics/small satellites, manufacturing and micro-electro-mechanical systems. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
