Associate Professors Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimaryAssociate Professors Associate Professors Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Katerina E. Aifantis Associate Professor and MAE Faculty Fellow (352) 392-6227work kaifantis@ufl.eduINTERNET After obtaining my Bachelors in Engineering in 2002 with a minor in Mathematics, at the age of 19, I received a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship with which I obtained my Masters from the University of Cambridge in 2004 and my PhD at the University of Groningen in 2005 at the age of 21, becoming the youngest PhD in The Netherlands. View Profile Thomas E. Angelini Associate Professor (352) 392-6438work t.e.angelini@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Angelini received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the University of Illinois. His research interests include collective cell motion, mechanical instabilities in tissue cell assemblies, bacterial biofilm physics, soft matter physics, biomolecular self-assembly, and tribology of soft matter interfaces. Education Ph.D., 2005, University of Illinois Teaching Interests Soft Biological Mechanics, Soft Tissue Mechanics, Data Measurement and Analysis, Vibrations. View Profile Bruce F. Carroll Associate Professor and Associate Chair of Academic Programs (352) 392-4943work bfc@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1988, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Research InterestsFluid mechanics, experimental methods, shock wave/boundary layer interactions, pressure and temperature sensitive coatings, low Reynolds number aerodynamics, application of MEMS, aero-optics View Profile Youping Chen Associate Professor (352) 392-8494work ypchen2@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D, 2003, The George Washington University Research Interests Multiscale Materials Modeling Theory and Tools, Biological Materials, Microelectronics, Energy Materials, Coupled Dynamics of Dislocations-Interfaces and Phonon transport View Profile John W. Conklin Associate Professor (352) 392-0614work jwconklin@ufl.eduINTERNET John Conklin is an Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He joined the UF faculty in 2012 after a three-year research associateship at the W.W. Hansen Experimental Physics Laboratory at Stanford. He received his BS and MEng degrees from Cornell and PhD from Stanford in 2009. In 2011, John was the Fulbright Junior Lecturer at the University of Trento in Italy. View Profile Norman G. Fitz-coy Associate Professor (352) 392-1029work nfc@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1990, Auburn University Research Interests Dynamics and control of multibody systems, game theory, orbital dynamics, flight mechanics. View Profile David Jeffcoat UFIS-REEF Director and Adjunct Professor (850) 833-9350 ext. 225work djeffcoat@ufl.eduINTERNET Forty-five years engineering work experience in industry and government, including Opp Textile Mills, Monsanto Textiles Company, Air Force Material Command, and Jacobs Technology. Currently serving as Regional Director, UF Innovation Station REEF. Education Ph.D. Industrial Engineering, Auburn University, 1990 Teaching Interests System Design, Discrete Optimization, Probability Research Interests Design and optimization of complex systems View Profile Ashok V. Kumar Associate Professor (352) 392-0816work akumar@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1993, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Research Interests Multifunctional structures, Finite Element Method, Geometric Modeling, Design Optimization and Rapid Prototyping. View Profile Richard C. Lind Associate Professor ricklind@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering, 1995, University of Minnesota Research Interests aeroservoelasticity, morphing, controls, flight testing View Profile Jonathan R. Scheffe Associate Professor (352) 392-0839work jscheffe@ufl.eduINTERNET Jonathan Scheffe is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. Prof. Scheffes research is focused on the conversion and storage of solar energy in the form of renewable fuels/electricity through thermochemical routes. He is the former chair of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Solar Energy Division and has co-authored more than 35 peer received publications in the field of solar thermal energy conversion. View Profile Chelsey S. Simmons Associate Professor (352) 392-4365work css@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Simmons received her B.S. cum laude from Harvard University and her M.S. and Ph.D. from Stanford University. In addition to her engineering research and coursework, Simmons received a Ph.D. Minor in Education and was a founding officer and President of Stanfords American Society for Engineering Education. She also serves on the advisory board of a company based on one of her pending patents. View Profile Curtis R. Taylor Associate Professor and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Student Affairs (352) 392-4440work curtis.taylor@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Curtis R. Taylor, Ph.D. directs the nanomechanics research lab at UF. He teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in solid mechanics. Nanomechanics deals with the study and application of fundamental mechanical properties of physical systems at the nanoscale, like elastic, thermal, and kinetic. The application of this research seeks to develop new technologies that utilize the unique properties of nano- and bio-materials. View Profile Gloria J. Wiens Associate Professor (352) 392-0806work gwiens@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Wiens is currently conducting research in the area of human-robot collaboration for smart factory, integrating AI with robot control in providing augmented intelligence of robots interacting with humans, other robots and machines. She has also been conducting research in the areas of intelligent and autonomous robotic systems, innovative mechanisms and controls for automation, space robotics/small satellites, manufacturing and micro-electro-mechanical systems. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
