Faculty Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFaculty Faculty Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y John F Abbitt Instructional Associate Professor (352) 392-7557work jda@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D, 1991, University of Virginia, View Profile Katerina E. Aifantis Associate Professor and MAE Faculty Fellow (352) 392-6227work kaifantis@ufl.eduINTERNET After obtaining my Bachelors in Engineering in 2002 with a minor in Mathematics, at the age of 19, I received a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship with which I obtained my Masters from the University of Cambridge in 2004 and my PhD at the University of Groningen in 2005 at the age of 21, becoming the youngest PhD in The Netherlands. View Profile Thomas E. Angelini Associate Professor (352) 392-6438work t.e.angelini@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Angelini received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the University of Illinois. His research interests include collective cell motion, mechanical instabilities in tissue cell assemblies, bacterial biofilm physics, soft matter physics, biomolecular self-assembly, and tribology of soft matter interfaces. Education Ph.D., 2005, University of Illinois Teaching Interests Soft Biological Mechanics, Soft Tissue Mechanics, Data Measurement and Analysis, Vibrations. View Profile Nagaraj K. Arakere Professor (352) 273-2849work nagaraj@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Arakere received his Ph.D. in 1988 from Arizona State University. His research interests include Damage mechanics of structural materials subjected to monotonic and fatigue loading, Fatigue life evaluation, Rolling contact fatigue, Spall propagation, Superalloys, Foams, Related constitutive and finite element model development, and Dynamics of rotor-bearing systems. Education Ph.D, 1988, Arizona State University Teaching Interests Failure of materials in design, Fatigue, Fracture mechanics, Contact mechanics, Vibrations, Rotor dynamics Research Interests Fatigue, fracture, microstructure-sensitive design, monotonic and cyclic deformation response, Ultra-high strength bearing steels, Single crystal nickel-base superalloys, contact mechanics, fatigue spall propagation, and related constitutive and finite element model development. View Profile S. Bala Balachandar William F. Powers Professor, Distinguished Professor (352) 392-8909work bala1s@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 1988, Brown University, Teaching Interests Computational fluid science (aka CFD), Large scale simulation of complex flows, transition and turbulence, multiphase flows, environmental flows View Profile Scott Banks Professor (352) 392-6109work banks@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Banks has been active in orthopaedic and joint mechanics research his entire career. He is a member of several professional societies including ASME, the Knee Society, the American Society for Biomechanics and the Orthopaedic Research Society. Professor Banks served as President and annual conference host for the International Society for Technology in Arthroplasty in 2013, and remains a member of the Board of Directors. View Profile Prabir Barooah Professor (352) 294-0411work pbarooah@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Barooah received his Ph.D. in 2007 from the University of California, Santa Barbara. From 1999 to 2002 he was a research engineer at United Technologies Research Center, East Hartford, CT. He received the M. S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Delaware in 1999 and the B.Tech degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in 1996. View Profile Teresa Benitez Instructional Assistant Professor (352) 294-0435work tbg1984@ufl.eduINTERNET Education B.S. summa cum laude, 2006, University of Puerto Rico at Mayagez,M.S., 2008, Stanford University,Ph.D., 2017, University of Florida Teaching Interests Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer View Profile Jonathan T. Brooks Instructional Assistant Professor (352) 294-0472work brooks666@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationB.S., 2012, University of Florida,M.S., 2013, University of Florida,Ph.D., 2017, University of FloridaTeaching InterestsNumerical methods, control systems, and optimization. View Profile Cristian Cardenas-Lailhacar Associate Research Scientist (352) 392-5425work Additional Roles Assistant Director of the Industrial Assessment Center, and Assistant Director of the Mobile Energy Laboratory at the University of Florida. He is also an Affiliate Faculty at the Center for Latin American Studies Education BS, University of Chile, 1989 Ph.D. University of Florida, 1998 Research Interests Industrial energy management and productivity, energy efficiency and optimization, energy policy, new energy sources and materials, chemical reactivity and structure optimization at molecular level. View Profile Bruce F. Carroll Associate Professor and Associate Chair of Academic Programs (352) 392-4943work bfc@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1988, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Research InterestsFluid mechanics, experimental methods, shock wave/boundary layer interactions, pressure and temperature sensitive coatings, low Reynolds number aerodynamics, application of MEMS, aero-optics View Profile Oana Cazacu Professor and Charles Taylor Faculty Fellow (850) 833-9350work cazacu@reef.ufl.eduINTERNET Education H.D.R.(Habilitation a Diriger les Recherches), 2004, University of Lille, France D.S., 1995, University of Lille, France, Research Interests Damage, Metal Plasticity and Viscoplasticity, Rock and Soil Mechanics, Mechanics of Particulate Materials, Penetration Mechanics View Profile Nitin Chandola Research Assistant Engineer & Graduate Student Coordinator (850) 833-9350 ext 232work nitinchandola@ufl.eduINTERNET Research Interests: Multi-scale modeling View Profile Youping Chen Associate Professor (352) 392-8494work ypchen2@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D, 2003, The George Washington University Research Interests Multiscale Materials Modeling Theory and Tools, Biological Materials, Microelectronics, Energy Materials, Coupled Dynamics of Dislocations-Interfaces and Phonon transport View Profile Jacob N. Chung Andrew H. Hines/Progress Energy Professor and Florida Eminent Scholar (352) 392-9607work jnchung@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Chung is currently the Andrew H. Hines, Jr./Progress Energy Eminent Scholar Chair Professor at the University of Florida. He joined the University of Florida in 1998 after 19 years on the faculty at the Washington State University. Dr. Chung holds both B.S. and M.S. degrees in Nuclear Engineering and had spent 6 years working as a nuclear reactor safety engineer in the industry before receiving his Ph.D. View Profile John W. Conklin Associate Professor (352) 392-0614work jwconklin@ufl.eduINTERNET John Conklin is an Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He joined the UF faculty in 2012 after a three-year research associateship at the W.W. Hansen Experimental Physics Laboratory at Stanford. He received his BS and MEng degrees from Cornell and PhD from Stanford in 2009. In 2011, John was the Fulbright Junior Lecturer at the University of Trento in Italy. View Profile Carl D. Crane, III Professor (352) 219-6433work ccrane@ufl.eduINTERNET Carl D. Crane is a Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Director of the Center for Intelligent Machines and Robotics (CIMAR) at the University of Florida. He received his B.S. and M.E. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1978 and 1979. Following this he spent five years as an officer in the Army Corps of Engineers. View Profile Dan Dickrell Instructional Associate Professor (352) 392-1196work djd3@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2006, University of Florida Teaching Interests Engineering Mechanics (statics, dynamics, mechanics of materials) Engineering Design Computer Programming for Engineers (LabVIEW and Matlab) Research Interests Computational image analysis Electrical contact mechanics Tribology Engineering education methods for very-large enrollment courses View Profile Warren Dixon Deans Leadership Professor and Department Chair (352) 846-1463work chair@mae.ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. Warren Dixon received his Ph.D. in 2000 from Clemson University. He worked as a research staff member and Eugene P. Wigner Fellow at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) until 2004, when he joined the University of Florida in the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department, where he is now an Ebaugh Professor and Department Chair. His main research interest has been the development and application of Lyapunov-based control techniques for uncertain nonlinear systems. View Profile Ting Dong Instructional Assistant Professor dting0603@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2020, University of Florida Research Interests Prognostics and health management, maintenance of aircraft structure Teaching Interests Finite Element Analysis and Design, Aerospace Design 1 & 2, Mechanics of Materials, Mechanical Engineering Design 1. View Profile Z. Hugh Fan Professor (352) 846-3021work hfan@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Fan joined UF in 2003. His research focus is to develop microfluidics and BioMEMS technologies and apply them to biomedical applications. Microfluidics involves device fabrication and manufacturing, study of fluid behavior in microscale, and exploiting the devices for a variety of applications including point-of-care testing, environmental monitoring, and detection of pathogens in the field. Education Ph. View Profile Norman G. Fitz-coy Associate Professor (352) 392-1029work nfc@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1990, Auburn University Research Interests Dynamics and control of multibody systems, game theory, orbital dynamics, flight mechanics. View Profile Janak Gaire Research Assistant Scientist jgaire@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Prashant Ganesh Research Assistant Engineer (850) 833-9350 ext 255work prashant.ganesh@ufl.eduINTERNET Prashant Ganesh received his M.S. degree in Aerospace Engineer from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 2017 and his B.E in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Anna University in Chennai, India in 2014. He manages the Autonomous Vehicles Lab an AFRL funded lab located at UF REEF. His research involves developing guidance, navigation and controls solutions for single and multiple agents in a GPS denied/degraded environment and deploying them on a team of flying and ground robots to validate them. View Profile Hitomi Yamaguchi Greenslet Professor and Graduate Coordinator (352) 392-0812work hitomiy@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Greenslet received her Ph.D. in 1996 from Utsunomiya University in Japan. Her research interests include Magnetic field-assisted finishing; Surface functionalization and characterization; Ultra-precision surface finishing of optics; Surface and edge finishing of capillary tubes, catheter shafts and stents; and Medical device development. Education Ph.D., 1996, Utsunomiya University, Japan Teaching Interests Manufacturing engineering, Fundamentals of production engineering, Nontraditional manufacturing engineering. View Profile Mike Griffis Instructional Associate Professor and Undergraduate Coordinator (352) 392-9473work mwg@ufl.eduINTERNET After 20 years in the robotics industry, Mike came back to UF to teach the design courses. Education 1991 Ph.D. University of Florida 1988 MSME University of Florida 1985 BSME University of Florida Teaching Interests Design, Kinematics, Statics, Numerical Methods Research Interests Kinematics, Statics, Screw Theory View Profile Dan Guralnik Research Assistant Scientist danguralnik@ufl.eduINTERNET Dan Guralnik received his Ph.D. from the Technion-IIT Mathematics department in 2005, specializing in Geometric Group Theory. After post-doctoral appointments at Vanderbilt University and University of Oklahoma, where he worked on asymptotic geometry and boundary dynamics of discrete groups, he moved in 2011 to a post-doctoral appointment at KodLab, the legged locomotion laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania, to start work on applications of topology and category theory to problems of knowledge representation in the context of navigation and control. View Profile Matthew T. Hale Assistant Professor (352) 294-0436work matthewhale@ufl.eduINTERNET Matthew Hale received his BSE summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received his MS and PhD from Georgia Tech. His work is driven by designing and analyzing multi-agent coordination algorithms that function well under challenging conditions, such as asynchronous information sharing, noisy communications, and user privacy requirements. His work deploys these algorithms on teams of flying and ground robots, providing both validation of the underlying theory and further research directions. View Profile Ryan W. Houim Assistant Professor (352) 392-7164work rhouim@ufl.eduINTERNET Ryan Houim received his BSME from North Dakota State University and his MS and Ph.D. degrees from the Pennsylvania State University. He was a National Research Council post-doctoral fellow at the Naval Research Laboratory and a Research Assistant Professor at the University of Maryland prior to joining the University of Florida. His research is focused on understanding the dynamics of multiphase and chemically reactive flows using numerical simulation techniques. View Profile Grant Huang Research Associate Scientist (850) 833-9350 ext.229work grant.huang@ufl.eduINTERNET Research Interests Bio-inspired navigation, Sensory-based navigation and localization for Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) applications, Assisted GPS/GNSS (A-GPS/GNSS) technologies View Profile Yong Huang Professor (352) 392-5520work yongh@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Yong Huang is a professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, and Materials Science and Engineering. His research interests are two-fold: 1) processing of biological and engineering materials for healthcare/energy applications, and 2) understanding of dynamic material behavior during manufacturing and process-induced damage or defect structures. He served as the Technical Program Chair for the 2010 American Society of Mechanical Engineers International Manufacturing Science and Engineering Conference (ASME MSEC 2010) and the 2012 International Symposium on Flexible Automation (ISFA 2012). View Profile Peter G. Ifju Professor and Associate Chair of Faculty Affairs (352) 392-6744work ifju@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1992, Virginia Polytechnic InstituteResearch InterestsExperimental mechanics, moire interferometry, compositie materials, micro air vehicles. View Profile Thomas L. Jackson Research Scientist (352) 273-1243work tlj@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Thomas L. Jackson (Citizenship: USA). Dr. Thomas L. Jackson is a Research Scientist in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Previously he was Technical Manager for the Center for Compressible Multiphase Turbulence at the University of Florida. He received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1985, after which he joined the staff of the Institute for Computer Applications in Science and Engineering (ICASE). View Profile David Jeffcoat UFIS-REEF Director and Adjunct Professor (850) 833-9350 ext. 225work djeffcoat@ufl.eduINTERNET Forty-five years engineering work experience in industry and government, including Opp Textile Mills, Monsanto Textiles Company, Air Force Material Command, and Jacobs Technology. Currently serving as Regional Director, UF Innovation Station REEF. Education Ph.D. Industrial Engineering, Auburn University, 1990 Teaching Interests System Design, Discrete Optimization, Probability Research Interests Design and optimization of complex systems View Profile Nam-Ho Kim Professor and Daniel C. Drucker Faculty Fellow (352) 846-0665work nkim@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Nam-Ho Kim is presently a Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He graduated with a Ph.D. in the Department of Mechanical Engineering from the University of Iowa in 1999 and worked at the Center for Computer-Aided Design as a postdoctoral associate until 2001. He is an Associate Fellow of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and an Associate Editor of Journal of Mechanical Design and Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization. View Profile Ashok V. Kumar Associate Professor (352) 392-0816work akumar@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1993, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Research Interests Multifunctional structures, Finite Element Method, Geometric Modeling, Design Optimization and Rapid Prototyping. View Profile Richard C. Lind Associate Professor ricklind@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering, 1995, University of Minnesota Research Interests aeroservoelasticity, morphing, controls, flight testing View Profile Siddhartha Mehta Research Associate Scientist (850) 833-9350 ext 227work siddhart@ufl.eduINTERNET Research Interests: Robotics, non-linear control View Profile Renwei Mei Professor (352) 392-0888work rwmei@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1990, University of IllinoisResearch InterestsTwo-phase flow, turbulence, computational fluid mechanics. View Profile Amor A. Menezes Assistant Professor (352) 294-0470work amormenezes@ufl.eduINTERNET Amor A. Menezes is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, an affiliate of the J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Biomedical Engineering, an affiliate of the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, and a member of the Institute for Cell & Tissue Science and Engineering at the University of Florida. His group applies dynamical systems theory and control engineering methods in the fields of systems biology and synthetic biology. View Profile Steven A. E. Miller Assistant Professor (352) 392-0886work saem@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. Steven A. E. Miller, Ph.D., conducts research in theoretical fluid dynamics, theoretical aeroacoustics, and related disciplines. He joined the University of Florida Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering in August of 2016. For seven years he was a United States government civil servant and was appointed to the position of theoretical aeroacoustician (research aerospace engineer) at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Langley Research Center, Aeroacoustics Branch. View Profile Saeed Moghaddam William Powers Professor (352) 392-0889work saeedmog@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2006, University of Maryland Research Interests Micro/nanoscale transport and nanotechnology for energy science and health applications; nanoengineering of functionalized membranes for energy conversion and storage and filtration/separation applications; heat and mass transfer in micro/nanostructures; microfluidic reactor platforms for fundamental energy research and reaction engineering; portable power View Profile Kamran Mohseni W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor (352) 273-1834work mohseni@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Mohseni received his Ph.D. in 2000 from California Institute of Technology. After a year as a Postdoc in Control and Dynamical Systems at Caltech he joined the Aerospace Engineering Sciences department at the University of Colorado in Boulder as an Assistant Professor. Professor Mohseni joined the University of Florida as W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor in MAE and ECE departments in 2011. View Profile Patrick Musgrave Assistant Professor 352-392-6230work pmusgrave@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Patrick Musgrave received his PhD from Virginia Tech in 2018 and BSc & BSE from the University of Pittsburgh in 2012. Dr. Musgraves research focuses on adaptive and morphing systems operating in fluidic environments, in particular systems subject to dynamic fluid-structure interactions. These systems are inherently multi-physical and sit at the intersection of structures, hydro/aerodynamics, mechatronics, smart materials, and controls. View Profile Sean R. Niemi Instructional Assistant Professor (352) 294-3381work srn@mae.ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Sean Niemi received his Ph.D in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Florida in 2018.EducationPh.D., 2018, University of FloridaTeaching InterestsEngineering Design, Precision Engineering, Tribology, Metrology, Quality and Manufacturing Engineering View Profile Jing Pan Assistant Professor (352) 294-6869work jingpan@ufl.eduINTERNET Jing Pan received his PhD from Purdue University in 2017. His research focuses on developing nanoscale machineries for biotechnology applications. He conducted his postdoctoral research at Stanford University School of Medicine, where he demonstrated translational impact of his work in novel biosensors and molecular diagnostics. Education Postdoc, 2019 Stanford University Ph.D, 2017 Purdue University B.S, 2011 Xian Jiaotong University Teaching Interests Heat and Mass Transfer; Classical and Statistical Thermodynamics; Modern Optics and Imaging System Engineering; Biodesign Research Interests Macromolecular Machines; Directed Evolution; Self-assembly and self-organization; Bio-nanotechnology; Synthetic Biology; Medical Technology. View Profile Winfred M. Phillips Professor and Executive Chief of Staff (352) 392-6620work wphil@ufl.eduINTERNET Education D.Sc., 1968, University of Virginia Research Interests Fluid mechanics, gas dynamics, biomedical engineering. View Profile Anil V. Rao Professor and Erich Farber Faculty Fellow (352) 392-5523work anilvrao@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Rao earned his Ph.D. in mechanical and aerospace engineering from Princeton University, his M.S.E. in aerospace engineering from the University of Michigan, and his B.S. in mechanical engineering and A.B. in mathematics from Cornell University. Professor Raos research interests lie in the area of control and optimization of space and air vehicles and combine the development of new computational methods for optimal control with novel applications including space mission planning, performance optimization of atmospheric flight vehicles, and other vehicular control problems (for example, high performance ground and underwater vehicles). View Profile Benoit Revil-Baudard Assistant Research Scientist & Graduate Faculty (850) 833-9350 ext. 243work revil@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 2010, Ecole Nationale Suprieure des Mines de Paris, Center for Material Forming, France Teaching Interests Applied elasticity, Continuum Mechanics, Solid Mechanics, Plasticity, Finite Element Analysis Research Interests Computational Plasticity, Metal Forming, High-rate deformation of metallic materials, Damage Mechanics View Profile Shannon Ridgeway Instructional Assistant Professor scer@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Subrata Roy Professor (352) 392-9823work roy@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 1994, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Research Interests Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer, Magnetogasdynamics, Plasma Based Flow Control, Electric Propulsion, and Micro/Nanoscale Flows. View Profile Andres Rubiano Instructional Assistant Professor 352-273-2823work ssjandres@ufl.eduINTERNET Andrs Rubiano (PhD, University of Florida; MSc, Universidad de los Andes) is an Instructional Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He currently teaches Mechanical Engineering Design 1 and 3 (Capstone Design). He has over 12 years of combined experience in teaching high school Physics and Calculus, GRE and GMAT prep courses (Quantitative Reasoning sections), and mechanical engineering undergraduate and graduate courses, including Advanced Heat Transfer, Combustion, Computer Aided Design, Mechanics of Materials, Fluid Mechanics, and Mech Design. View Profile Bhavani V. Sankar Professor (352) 392-6749work sankar@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Sankar received his Ph.D. in 1984 from Purdue University. His research interests lie in the field of mechanics of composite materials and structures, especially micro-mechanics and fracture mechanics. Education Ph.D., 1984, Purdue University Teaching Interests Aerospace structures, Mechanics of composite materials and structures, Fracture mechanics, Finite element analysis. Research Interests Composite materials and structures including impact- fracture- and micro-mechanics, textile composites, cellular materials and foams, sandwich construction, functionally graded materials, and integrated thermal protection systems. View Profile Malisa Sarntinoranont Professor (352) 392-8404work msarnt@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Sarntinoranont grew up in Starke, Clermont and Gainesville, FL. Her degrees are in Mechanical Engineering with an emphasis in Bioengineering. Dr.Ss research is driven by a vision to develop engineering tools for patient-specific drug therapy. Her lab is developing image-based computational models that predict flows and transport within the brain, spinal cord, tumors and bioreactors. View Profile W. Gregory Sawyer N.C. Ebaugh Professor and Distinguished Teaching Scholar (352) 392-8488work wgsawyer@ufl.eduINTERNET W. Gregory Sawyer is an N. C. Ebaugh Professor and a Distinguished Teaching Scholar. He received his PhD from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1999, and later that year joined the faculty in Mechanical Engineering. Prof. Sawyer has published over 200 journal papers, has over 10,000 citations, holds over 20 patents, and is most proud of his numerous PhD students that are now faculty members and scientists across the globe. View Profile Jonathan R. Scheffe Associate Professor (352) 392-0839work jscheffe@ufl.eduINTERNET Jonathan Scheffe is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. Prof. Scheffes research is focused on the conversion and storage of solar energy in the form of renewable fuels/electricity through thermochemical routes. He is the former chair of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Solar Energy Division and has co-authored more than 35 peer received publications in the field of solar thermal energy conversion. View Profile John K. Schueller Professor (352) 392-0822work schuejk@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. John K. Schueller received his Ph.D. from Purdue University in 1983. He is a generalist with some concentration in manufacturing and in off-highway vehicles and equipment. He is a Fellow of ASABE, IAABE, and SAE and holds Founder, Life, and/or Senior Member status in ASME, EurAgEng, IEEE, ISAE, and SME. Prof. Schueller is the Chair Editor-in-Chief of Computers and Electronics in Agriculture and serves on the Management Committee of the Club of Bologna. View Profile Corin Segal Professor (352) 392-6132work cor@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1991, University of Virginia Research Interests Combustion, fluid diagnostics, Fluid mechanics, aircraft design. View Profile Mark Sheplak Professor (352) 392-3983work sheplak@ufl.eduINTERNET Mark Sheplak is currently a Professor holding joint appointments in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Florida. Prior to joining UF in 1998, he was a postdoctoral associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technologys Microsystems Technology Laboratories, Cambridge, MA from 1995-1998. View Profile S.A. Sherif Professor (352) 392-7821work sasherif@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1985, Iowa State University Research Interests Heat and Mass Transfer, Thermodynamics, Thermal System Design and Optimization, Refrigeration and Cryogenics, HVAC, Solar and Hydrogen Energy View Profile Jane Jaejeong Shin Assistant Professor 352-392-3140work jshin2@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Chelsey S. Simmons Associate Professor (352) 392-4365work css@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Simmons received her B.S. cum laude from Harvard University and her M.S. and Ph.D. from Stanford University. In addition to her engineering research and coursework, Simmons received a Ph.D. Minor in Education and was a founding officer and President of Stanfords American Society for Engineering Education. She also serves on the advisory board of a company based on one of her pending patents. View Profile Douglas E. Spearot Professor and Graduate Coordinator (352) 392-6747work dspearot@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Spearot received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the Georgia Institute of Technology. His research broadly includes the use of atomistic and mesoscale simulation techniques to study the mechanical and thermodynamic properties of materials, with particular focus on the behavior of interfaces. He was awarded the NSF CAREER Award in 2010 and was named 2020 Teacher of the Year in the Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering. View Profile Ghatu Subhash Newton C. Ebaugh Professor + 1 352-727-8662work subhash@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Ghatu Subhash obtained his PhD from University of California San Diego in 1991 and conducted his post-doctoral research at California Institute of Technology. His research focusses on multiaxial behavior of advanced ceramics, metals, composites, gels and biological materials. He has developed novel experimental methods which have been patented and widely used. He has co-authored 205 peer reviewed journal articles (8400 citations in Google Scholar, h-index=48), 85 conference proceedings, 2-books, and 6 patents. View Profile Xin Tang Assistant Professor xin.tang@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Xin Tang received his Ph.D. from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Post-doctoral Fellow training from Harvard University. His research interests include cell and molecular mechanics in cancer development and metastasis, cardiovascular system, and neurons; unconventional mechano-electrophysiology; quantitative in vivo/vitro functional bio-imaging; bio-nanotechnology; and development of new biophysical tools to probe biological function/structure. Education Ph.D., 2013, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Teaching Interests Active Soft Matter Biophysics; Biomechanics at Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Scales; Quantitative Optical Bio-imaging; Continuum Mechanics; and Finite-element Analysis Research Interests Biomechanics, Mechanobiology and Soft Matter: Cell and molecular mechanics in cancer development and metastasis, cardiovascular system, and neurons; unconventional mechano-electrophysiology; quantitative in vivo/vitro functional bio-imaging; bio-nanotechnology; and development of new biophysical tools to probe biological function/structure View Profile Curtis R. Taylor Associate Professor and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Student Affairs (352) 392-4440work curtis.taylor@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Curtis R. Taylor, Ph.D. directs the nanomechanics research lab at UF. He teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in solid mechanics. Nanomechanics deals with the study and application of fundamental mechanical properties of physical systems at the nanoscale, like elastic, thermal, and kinetic. The application of this research seeks to develop new technologies that utilize the unique properties of nano- and bio-materials. View Profile James A. Trainham Professor (352) 392-0826work jtrainham@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Trainhams research interests are in renewable energy. Before joining UF, Trainham spent most of his professional career in industry: four years as chief technology officer JDC Phosphate, four years as vice president, distinguished fellow and director of the Research Triangle Solar Fuels Institute at RTI International, senior vice president of Sundrop Fuels (a solar fuel company), served as global vice president of Science and Technology at PPG Industries, and had a 25-year career at the DuPont Company. View Profile Roger Tran-Son-Tay Professor (352) 392-6229work rtst@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1983, Washington University Research Interests Biomedical engineering, rheology, fluid mechanics. View Profile Matthew J. Traum Instructional Associate Professor (352) 294-6897work mtraum@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Matthew J. Traum is an experienced educator, administrator, fund raiser, and researcher serving the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida as an instructional faculty member. He is also founding CEO at Engineer Inc., a STEM education social enterprise that designs and distributes teaching kits enabling remote learners to complete lab-intensive online engineering and science courses. View Profile Lawrence S. Ukeiley Professor (352) 392-9459work ukeiley@ufl.eduINTERNET Lawrence Ukeiley is currently a Professor in the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department at the University of Florida. His primary research interests are in experimental fluid dynamics and turbulence as related to flow control, aeroacoustics, fluid structure interactions and the development of low order models. He received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Alfred University in 1989 and his MS and PhD in Mechanical Engineering from Clarkson University in 1992 and 1996 respectively. View Profile Yu Wang Assistant Professor 352-846-3599work yuwang1@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Peter Wass Research Scientist (352) 392-6746work pwass@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Gloria J. Wiens Associate Professor (352) 392-0806work gwiens@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Wiens is currently conducting research in the area of human-robot collaboration for smart factory, integrating AI with robot control in providing augmented intelligence of robots interacting with humans, other robots and machines. She has also been conducting research in the areas of intelligent and autonomous robotic systems, innovative mechanisms and controls for automation, space robotics/small satellites, manufacturing and micro-electro-mechanical systems. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
