Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyResearch GroupsThermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y John F Abbitt Instructional Associate Professor (352) 392-7557work jda@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D, 1991, University of Virginia, View Profile S. Bala Balachandar William F. Powers Professor, Distinguished Professor (352) 392-8909work bala1s@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 1988, Brown University, Teaching Interests Computational fluid science (aka CFD), Large scale simulation of complex flows, transition and turbulence, multiphase flows, environmental flows View Profile Bruce F. Carroll Associate Professor and Associate Chair of Academic Programs (352) 392-4943work bfc@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1988, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Research InterestsFluid mechanics, experimental methods, shock wave/boundary layer interactions, pressure and temperature sensitive coatings, low Reynolds number aerodynamics, application of MEMS, aero-optics View Profile Jacob N. Chung Andrew H. Hines/Progress Energy Professor and Florida Eminent Scholar (352) 392-9607work jnchung@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Chung is currently the Andrew H. Hines, Jr./Progress Energy Eminent Scholar Chair Professor at the University of Florida. He joined the University of Florida in 1998 after 19 years on the faculty at the Washington State University. Dr. Chung holds both B.S. and M.S. degrees in Nuclear Engineering and had spent 6 years working as a nuclear reactor safety engineer in the industry before receiving his Ph.D. View Profile Z. Hugh Fan Professor (352) 846-3021work hfan@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Fan joined UF in 2003. His research focus is to develop microfluidics and BioMEMS technologies and apply them to biomedical applications. Microfluidics involves device fabrication and manufacturing, study of fluid behavior in microscale, and exploiting the devices for a variety of applications including point-of-care testing, environmental monitoring, and detection of pathogens in the field. Education Ph. View Profile James Fletcher Adjunct Research Professor, University of North Florida (904) 620-1844work jfletche@unf.eduINTERNET View Profile David W. Hahn Courtesy Professor dwhahn@email.arizona.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1992, Louisiana State University Research Interests Development and application of laser-based diagnostic techniques (LIBS, Raman, Light scattering, LIF), laser-material and plasma-material interactions, aerosol analysis, laser-tissue interactions including laser ablation, dense-medium scattering, biophotonic-based sensing, combustion processes and emissions control including catalytic combustion, chemical kinetics and soot formation, solar-thermal chemistry and hydrogen generation, and heat and mass transfer in transient systems View Profile Ryan W. Houim Assistant Professor (352) 392-7164work rhouim@ufl.eduINTERNET Ryan Houim received his BSME from North Dakota State University and his MS and Ph.D. degrees from the Pennsylvania State University. He was a National Research Council post-doctoral fellow at the Naval Research Laboratory and a Research Assistant Professor at the University of Maryland prior to joining the University of Florida. His research is focused on understanding the dynamics of multiphase and chemically reactive flows using numerical simulation techniques. View Profile Herbert A. Ingley, III Associate Professor Emeritus (352) 392-9929work ingley@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1971, University of Florida Research Interests Heat transfer, Acoustics, Air conditioning, Utilization of solar energy. View Profile Thomas L. Jackson Research Scientist (352) 273-1243work tlj@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Thomas L. Jackson (Citizenship: USA). Dr. Thomas L. Jackson is a Research Scientist in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Previously he was Technical Manager for the Center for Compressible Multiphase Turbulence at the University of Florida. He received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1985, after which he joined the staff of the Institute for Computer Applications in Science and Engineering (ICASE). View Profile William E. Lear, Jr Adjunct Associate Professor Emeritus (352) 392-7572work lear@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. William. E. Lear is an Associate Fellow of AIAA, recipient of the 2014 Energy Systems Award from AIAA, former Chair of the Terrestrial Energy Systems technical committee, and has served in multiple roles with the International Energy Conversion Engineering Conference, including Technical Program Chair. His areas of research are novel distributed generation systems, advanced turbomachinery, and low temperature fuel cells. View Profile Renwei Mei Professor (352) 392-0888work rwmei@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1990, University of IllinoisResearch InterestsTwo-phase flow, turbulence, computational fluid mechanics. View Profile David W. Mikolaitis Courtesy Associate Professor Emeritus (352) 392-7632work mollusk@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1981, University of Illinois Research Interests Fluid mechanics, combustion theory, applied mathematics. View Profile Steven A. E. Miller Assistant Professor (352) 392-0886work saem@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. Steven A. E. Miller, Ph.D., conducts research in theoretical fluid dynamics, theoretical aeroacoustics, and related disciplines. He joined the University of Florida Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering in August of 2016. For seven years he was a United States government civil servant and was appointed to the position of theoretical aeroacoustician (research aerospace engineer) at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Langley Research Center, Aeroacoustics Branch. View Profile Saeed Moghaddam William Powers Professor (352) 392-0889work saeedmog@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2006, University of Maryland Research Interests Micro/nanoscale transport and nanotechnology for energy science and health applications; nanoengineering of functionalized membranes for energy conversion and storage and filtration/separation applications; heat and mass transfer in micro/nanostructures; microfluidic reactor platforms for fundamental energy research and reaction engineering; portable power View Profile Kamran Mohseni W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor (352) 273-1834work mohseni@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Mohseni received his Ph.D. in 2000 from California Institute of Technology. After a year as a Postdoc in Control and Dynamical Systems at Caltech he joined the Aerospace Engineering Sciences department at the University of Colorado in Boulder as an Assistant Professor. Professor Mohseni joined the University of Florida as W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor in MAE and ECE departments in 2011. View Profile Patrick Musgrave Assistant Professor 352-392-6230work pmusgrave@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Patrick Musgrave received his PhD from Virginia Tech in 2018 and BSc & BSE from the University of Pittsburgh in 2012. Dr. Musgraves research focuses on adaptive and morphing systems operating in fluidic environments, in particular systems subject to dynamic fluid-structure interactions. These systems are inherently multi-physical and sit at the intersection of structures, hydro/aerodynamics, mechatronics, smart materials, and controls. View Profile Jing Pan Assistant Professor (352) 294-6869work jingpan@ufl.eduINTERNET Jing Pan received his PhD from Purdue University in 2017. His research focuses on developing nanoscale machineries for biotechnology applications. He conducted his postdoctoral research at Stanford University School of Medicine, where he demonstrated translational impact of his work in novel biosensors and molecular diagnostics. Education Postdoc, 2019 Stanford University Ph.D, 2017 Purdue University B.S, 2011 Xian Jiaotong University Teaching Interests Heat and Mass Transfer; Classical and Statistical Thermodynamics; Modern Optics and Imaging System Engineering; Biodesign Research Interests Macromolecular Machines; Directed Evolution; Self-assembly and self-organization; Bio-nanotechnology; Synthetic Biology; Medical Technology. View Profile Winfred M. Phillips Professor and Executive Chief of Staff (352) 392-6620work wphil@ufl.eduINTERNET Education D.Sc., 1968, University of Virginia Research Interests Fluid mechanics, gas dynamics, biomedical engineering. View Profile Subrata Roy Professor (352) 392-9823work roy@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 1994, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Research Interests Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer, Magnetogasdynamics, Plasma Based Flow Control, Electric Propulsion, and Micro/Nanoscale Flows. View Profile Jonathan R. Scheffe Associate Professor (352) 392-0839work jscheffe@ufl.eduINTERNET Jonathan Scheffe is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. Prof. Scheffes research is focused on the conversion and storage of solar energy in the form of renewable fuels/electricity through thermochemical routes. He is the former chair of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Solar Energy Division and has co-authored more than 35 peer received publications in the field of solar thermal energy conversion. View Profile Corin Segal Professor (352) 392-6132work cor@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1991, University of Virginia Research Interests Combustion, fluid diagnostics, Fluid mechanics, aircraft design. View Profile Mark Sheplak Professor (352) 392-3983work sheplak@ufl.eduINTERNET Mark Sheplak is currently a Professor holding joint appointments in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Florida. Prior to joining UF in 1998, he was a postdoctoral associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technologys Microsystems Technology Laboratories, Cambridge, MA from 1995-1998. View Profile S.A. Sherif Professor (352) 392-7821work sasherif@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1985, Iowa State University Research Interests Heat and Mass Transfer, Thermodynamics, Thermal System Design and Optimization, Refrigeration and Cryogenics, HVAC, Solar and Hydrogen Energy View Profile D. Scott Stewart Adjunct Research Professor (217) 333-7947work stewart.dscott@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile William G. Tiederman, Jr Professor Emeritus (352) 392-0828work EducationPh.D., 1965, Stanford UniversityResearch InterestsViscous fluid mechanics, turbulent wall flows. View Profile James A. Trainham Professor (352) 392-0826work jtrainham@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Trainhams research interests are in renewable energy. Before joining UF, Trainham spent most of his professional career in industry: four years as chief technology officer JDC Phosphate, four years as vice president, distinguished fellow and director of the Research Triangle Solar Fuels Institute at RTI International, senior vice president of Sundrop Fuels (a solar fuel company), served as global vice president of Science and Technology at PPG Industries, and had a 25-year career at the DuPont Company. View Profile Roger Tran-Son-Tay Professor (352) 392-6229work rtst@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1983, Washington University Research Interests Biomedical engineering, rheology, fluid mechanics. View Profile Lawrence S. Ukeiley Professor (352) 392-9459work ukeiley@ufl.eduINTERNET Lawrence Ukeiley is currently a Professor in the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department at the University of Florida. His primary research interests are in experimental fluid dynamics and turbulence as related to flow control, aeroacoustics, fluid structure interactions and the development of low order models. He received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Alfred University in 1989 and his MS and PhD in Mechanical Engineering from Clarkson University in 1992 and 1996 respectively. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
