Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyResearch GroupsSolid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Katerina E. Aifantis Associate Professor and MAE Faculty Fellow (352) 392-6227work kaifantis@ufl.eduINTERNET After obtaining my Bachelors in Engineering in 2002 with a minor in Mathematics, at the age of 19, I received a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship with which I obtained my Masters from the University of Cambridge in 2004 and my PhD at the University of Groningen in 2005 at the age of 21, becoming the youngest PhD in The Netherlands. View Profile Thomas E. Angelini Associate Professor (352) 392-6438work t.e.angelini@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Angelini received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the University of Illinois. His research interests include collective cell motion, mechanical instabilities in tissue cell assemblies, bacterial biofilm physics, soft matter physics, biomolecular self-assembly, and tribology of soft matter interfaces. Education Ph.D., 2005, University of Illinois Teaching Interests Soft Biological Mechanics, Soft Tissue Mechanics, Data Measurement and Analysis, Vibrations. View Profile Nagaraj K. Arakere Professor (352) 273-2849work nagaraj@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Arakere received his Ph.D. in 1988 from Arizona State University. His research interests include Damage mechanics of structural materials subjected to monotonic and fatigue loading, Fatigue life evaluation, Rolling contact fatigue, Spall propagation, Superalloys, Foams, Related constitutive and finite element model development, and Dynamics of rotor-bearing systems. Education Ph.D, 1988, Arizona State University Teaching Interests Failure of materials in design, Fatigue, Fracture mechanics, Contact mechanics, Vibrations, Rotor dynamics Research Interests Fatigue, fracture, microstructure-sensitive design, monotonic and cyclic deformation response, Ultra-high strength bearing steels, Single crystal nickel-base superalloys, contact mechanics, fatigue spall propagation, and related constitutive and finite element model development. View Profile Oana Cazacu Professor and Charles Taylor Faculty Fellow (850) 833-9350work cazacu@reef.ufl.eduINTERNET Education H.D.R.(Habilitation a Diriger les Recherches), 2004, University of Lille, France D.S., 1995, University of Lille, France, Research Interests Damage, Metal Plasticity and Viscoplasticity, Rock and Soil Mechanics, Mechanics of Particulate Materials, Penetration Mechanics View Profile Youping Chen Associate Professor (352) 392-8494work ypchen2@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D, 2003, The George Washington University Research Interests Multiscale Materials Modeling Theory and Tools, Biological Materials, Microelectronics, Energy Materials, Coupled Dynamics of Dislocations-Interfaces and Phonon transport View Profile Dan Dickrell Instructional Associate Professor (352) 392-1196work djd3@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2006, University of Florida Teaching Interests Engineering Mechanics (statics, dynamics, mechanics of materials) Engineering Design Computer Programming for Engineers (LabVIEW and Matlab) Research Interests Computational image analysis Electrical contact mechanics Tribology Engineering education methods for very-large enrollment courses View Profile Hitomi Yamaguchi Greenslet Professor and Graduate Coordinator (352) 392-0812work hitomiy@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Greenslet received her Ph.D. in 1996 from Utsunomiya University in Japan. Her research interests include Magnetic field-assisted finishing; Surface functionalization and characterization; Ultra-precision surface finishing of optics; Surface and edge finishing of capillary tubes, catheter shafts and stents; and Medical device development. Education Ph.D., 1996, Utsunomiya University, Japan Teaching Interests Manufacturing engineering, Fundamentals of production engineering, Nontraditional manufacturing engineering. View Profile Yong Huang Professor (352) 392-5520work yongh@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Yong Huang is a professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, and Materials Science and Engineering. His research interests are two-fold: 1) processing of biological and engineering materials for healthcare/energy applications, and 2) understanding of dynamic material behavior during manufacturing and process-induced damage or defect structures. He served as the Technical Program Chair for the 2010 American Society of Mechanical Engineers International Manufacturing Science and Engineering Conference (ASME MSEC 2010) and the 2012 International Symposium on Flexible Automation (ISFA 2012). View Profile Peter G. Ifju Professor and Associate Chair of Faculty Affairs (352) 392-6744work ifju@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1992, Virginia Polytechnic InstituteResearch InterestsExperimental mechanics, moire interferometry, compositie materials, micro air vehicles. View Profile David A. Jenkins Adjunct Associate Engineer Emeritus (352) 392-6105work davej@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1973, University of Florida Research Interests Materials, structures, design, experimental stress analysis, instrumentation, failure analysis. View Profile Nam-Ho Kim Professor and Daniel C. Drucker Faculty Fellow (352) 846-0665work nkim@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Nam-Ho Kim is presently a Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He graduated with a Ph.D. in the Department of Mechanical Engineering from the University of Iowa in 1999 and worked at the Center for Computer-Aided Design as a postdoctoral associate until 2001. He is an Associate Fellow of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and an Associate Editor of Journal of Mechanical Design and Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization. View Profile Ashok V. Kumar Associate Professor (352) 392-0816work akumar@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1993, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Research Interests Multifunctional structures, Finite Element Method, Geometric Modeling, Design Optimization and Rapid Prototyping. View Profile Gary K. Matthew Associate Professor Emeritus (352) 392-0961work gmatthew@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1980, University of Florida,Research InterestsKinematics, Dynamics, Computer-aided design. View Profile Gary Miller Courtesy Professor, Exactech, Inc. and External Advisory Board Member (352) 377-1140work View Profile Shannon Ridgeway Instructional Assistant Professor scer@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Bhavani V. Sankar Professor (352) 392-6749work sankar@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Sankar received his Ph.D. in 1984 from Purdue University. His research interests lie in the field of mechanics of composite materials and structures, especially micro-mechanics and fracture mechanics. Education Ph.D., 1984, Purdue University Teaching Interests Aerospace structures, Mechanics of composite materials and structures, Fracture mechanics, Finite element analysis. Research Interests Composite materials and structures including impact- fracture- and micro-mechanics, textile composites, cellular materials and foams, sandwich construction, functionally graded materials, and integrated thermal protection systems. View Profile Malisa Sarntinoranont Professor (352) 392-8404work msarnt@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Sarntinoranont grew up in Starke, Clermont and Gainesville, FL. Her degrees are in Mechanical Engineering with an emphasis in Bioengineering. Dr.Ss research is driven by a vision to develop engineering tools for patient-specific drug therapy. Her lab is developing image-based computational models that predict flows and transport within the brain, spinal cord, tumors and bioreactors. View Profile W. Gregory Sawyer N.C. Ebaugh Professor and Distinguished Teaching Scholar (352) 392-8488work wgsawyer@ufl.eduINTERNET W. Gregory Sawyer is an N. C. Ebaugh Professor and a Distinguished Teaching Scholar. He received his PhD from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1999, and later that year joined the faculty in Mechanical Engineering. Prof. Sawyer has published over 200 journal papers, has over 10,000 citations, holds over 20 patents, and is most proud of his numerous PhD students that are now faculty members and scientists across the globe. View Profile John K. Schueller Professor (352) 392-0822work schuejk@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. John K. Schueller received his Ph.D. from Purdue University in 1983. He is a generalist with some concentration in manufacturing and in off-highway vehicles and equipment. He is a Fellow of ASABE, IAABE, and SAE and holds Founder, Life, and/or Senior Member status in ASME, EurAgEng, IEEE, ISAE, and SME. Prof. Schueller is the Chair Editor-in-Chief of Computers and Electronics in Agriculture and serves on the Management Committee of the Club of Bologna. View Profile Chelsey S. Simmons Associate Professor (352) 392-4365work css@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Simmons received her B.S. cum laude from Harvard University and her M.S. and Ph.D. from Stanford University. In addition to her engineering research and coursework, Simmons received a Ph.D. Minor in Education and was a founding officer and President of Stanfords American Society for Engineering Education. She also serves on the advisory board of a company based on one of her pending patents. View Profile Henry Sodano Daniel Drucker Faculty Fellow (352) 273-2663work hsodano@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 2005, Virginia Tech Research Interests Multifunctional Materials, Nanocomposites, Piezoelectric Materials and Devices, Fiber Reinforced Composites, Energy Harvesting, Mechanics of Materials, Sensors View Profile Douglas E. Spearot Professor and Graduate Coordinator (352) 392-6747work dspearot@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Spearot received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the Georgia Institute of Technology. His research broadly includes the use of atomistic and mesoscale simulation techniques to study the mechanical and thermodynamic properties of materials, with particular focus on the behavior of interfaces. He was awarded the NSF CAREER Award in 2010 and was named 2020 Teacher of the Year in the Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering. View Profile Ghatu Subhash Newton C. Ebaugh Professor + 1 352-727-8662work subhash@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Ghatu Subhash obtained his PhD from University of California San Diego in 1991 and conducted his post-doctoral research at California Institute of Technology. His research focusses on multiaxial behavior of advanced ceramics, metals, composites, gels and biological materials. He has developed novel experimental methods which have been patented and widely used. He has co-authored 205 peer reviewed journal articles (8400 citations in Google Scholar, h-index=48), 85 conference proceedings, 2-books, and 6 patents. View Profile Xin Tang Assistant Professor xin.tang@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Xin Tang received his Ph.D. from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Post-doctoral Fellow training from Harvard University. His research interests include cell and molecular mechanics in cancer development and metastasis, cardiovascular system, and neurons; unconventional mechano-electrophysiology; quantitative in vivo/vitro functional bio-imaging; bio-nanotechnology; and development of new biophysical tools to probe biological function/structure. Education Ph.D., 2013, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Teaching Interests Active Soft Matter Biophysics; Biomechanics at Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Scales; Quantitative Optical Bio-imaging; Continuum Mechanics; and Finite-element Analysis Research Interests Biomechanics, Mechanobiology and Soft Matter: Cell and molecular mechanics in cancer development and metastasis, cardiovascular system, and neurons; unconventional mechano-electrophysiology; quantitative in vivo/vitro functional bio-imaging; bio-nanotechnology; and development of new biophysical tools to probe biological function/structure View Profile Curtis R. Taylor Associate Professor and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Student Affairs (352) 392-4440work curtis.taylor@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Curtis R. Taylor, Ph.D. directs the nanomechanics research lab at UF. He teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in solid mechanics. Nanomechanics deals with the study and application of fundamental mechanical properties of physical systems at the nanoscale, like elastic, thermal, and kinetic. The application of this research seeks to develop new technologies that utilize the unique properties of nano- and bio-materials. View Profile Roger Tran-Son-Tay Professor (352) 392-6229work rtst@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1983, Washington University Research Interests Biomedical engineering, rheology, fluid mechanics. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
