Primary Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimary Primary Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart The results are being filtered by the character: S Clear Search Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Bhavani V. Sankar Professor (352) 392-6749work sankar@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Sankar received his Ph.D. in 1984 from Purdue University. His research interests lie in the field of mechanics of composite materials and structures, especially micro-mechanics and fracture mechanics. Education Ph.D., 1984, Purdue University Teaching Interests Aerospace structures, Mechanics of composite materials and structures, Fracture mechanics, Finite element analysis. Research Interests Composite materials and structures including impact- fracture- and micro-mechanics, textile composites, cellular materials and foams, sandwich construction, functionally graded materials, and integrated thermal protection systems. View Profile Malisa Sarntinoranont Professor (352) 392-8404work msarnt@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Sarntinoranont grew up in Starke, Clermont and Gainesville, FL. Her degrees are in Mechanical Engineering with an emphasis in Bioengineering. Dr.Ss research is driven by a vision to develop engineering tools for patient-specific drug therapy. Her lab is developing image-based computational models that predict flows and transport within the brain, spinal cord, tumors and bioreactors. View Profile W. Gregory Sawyer N.C. Ebaugh Professor and Distinguished Teaching Scholar (352) 392-8488work wgsawyer@ufl.eduINTERNET W. Gregory Sawyer is an N. C. Ebaugh Professor and a Distinguished Teaching Scholar. He received his PhD from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1999, and later that year joined the faculty in Mechanical Engineering. Prof. Sawyer has published over 200 journal papers, has over 10,000 citations, holds over 20 patents, and is most proud of his numerous PhD students that are now faculty members and scientists across the globe. View Profile Jonathan R. Scheffe Associate Professor (352) 392-0839work jscheffe@ufl.eduINTERNET Jonathan Scheffe is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. Prof. Scheffes research is focused on the conversion and storage of solar energy in the form of renewable fuels/electricity through thermochemical routes. He is the former chair of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Solar Energy Division and has co-authored more than 35 peer received publications in the field of solar thermal energy conversion. View Profile John K. Schueller Professor (352) 392-0822work schuejk@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. John K. Schueller received his Ph.D. from Purdue University in 1983. He is a generalist with some concentration in manufacturing and in off-highway vehicles and equipment. He is a Fellow of ASABE, IAABE, and SAE and holds Founder, Life, and/or Senior Member status in ASME, EurAgEng, IEEE, ISAE, and SME. Prof. Schueller is the Chair Editor-in-Chief of Computers and Electronics in Agriculture and serves on the Management Committee of the Club of Bologna. View Profile Corin Segal Professor (352) 392-6132work cor@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1991, University of Virginia Research Interests Combustion, fluid diagnostics, Fluid mechanics, aircraft design. View Profile Mark Sheplak Professor (352) 392-3983work sheplak@ufl.eduINTERNET Mark Sheplak is currently a Professor holding joint appointments in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Florida. Prior to joining UF in 1998, he was a postdoctoral associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technologys Microsystems Technology Laboratories, Cambridge, MA from 1995-1998. View Profile S.A. Sherif Professor (352) 392-7821work sasherif@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1985, Iowa State University Research Interests Heat and Mass Transfer, Thermodynamics, Thermal System Design and Optimization, Refrigeration and Cryogenics, HVAC, Solar and Hydrogen Energy View Profile Jane Jaejeong Shin Assistant Professor 352-392-3140work jshin2@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Chelsey S. Simmons Associate Professor (352) 392-4365work css@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Simmons received her B.S. cum laude from Harvard University and her M.S. and Ph.D. from Stanford University. In addition to her engineering research and coursework, Simmons received a Ph.D. Minor in Education and was a founding officer and President of Stanfords American Society for Engineering Education. She also serves on the advisory board of a company based on one of her pending patents. View Profile Douglas E. Spearot Professor and Graduate Coordinator (352) 392-6747work dspearot@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Spearot received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the Georgia Institute of Technology. His research broadly includes the use of atomistic and mesoscale simulation techniques to study the mechanical and thermodynamic properties of materials, with particular focus on the behavior of interfaces. He was awarded the NSF CAREER Award in 2010 and was named 2020 Teacher of the Year in the Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering. View Profile Ghatu Subhash Newton C. Ebaugh Professor + 1 352-727-8662work subhash@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Ghatu Subhash obtained his PhD from University of California San Diego in 1991 and conducted his post-doctoral research at California Institute of Technology. His research focusses on multiaxial behavior of advanced ceramics, metals, composites, gels and biological materials. He has developed novel experimental methods which have been patented and widely used. He has co-authored 205 peer reviewed journal articles (8400 citations in Google Scholar, h-index=48), 85 conference proceedings, 2-books, and 6 patents. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
