Amor A. Menezes Primary Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimary Primary Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Amor A. Menezes Assistant Professor Address Office Wertheim 489 Lab MAE-C 124 work Phone: (352) 294-0470work Fax: (352) 392-7303workfax Email: amormenezes@ufl.eduINTERNET Website: https://syborgs.mae.ufl.edu/ Website: Google Scholar Page BiographyAmor A. Menezes is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, an affiliate of the J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Biomedical Engineering, an affiliate of the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, and a member of the Institute for Cell & Tissue Science and Engineering at the University of Florida. His group applies dynamical systems theory and control engineering methods in the fields of systems biology and synthetic biology. Prof. Menezes is the Science Principal Investigator of the Center for the Utilization of Biological Engineering in Space, a NASA Space Technology Research Institute in biomanufacturing for deep space exploration. He is a Senior Member of IEEE, and a Member of AIAA, ASME, and BMES. He is an Associate Editor for the annual IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications. He was a 2015 Emerging Leader in Biosecurity and a 2015 fellow of the Synthetic Biology Leadership Excellence Accelerator Program. Prof. Menezes completed postdoctoral studies at the University of California, Berkeley and the University of Michigan in quantitative biosciences and automotive system modeling, respectively. His aerospace engineering graduate degrees are from the University of Michigan. His mechanical engineering undergraduate degree is from the University of Waterloo. Education Postdoc, 2016, University of California, Berkeley; Postdoc, 2011, University of Michigan; Ph.D., 2010, University of Michigan; M.S.E., 2006, University of Michigan; B.A.Sc., 2005, University of Waterloo Teaching Interests Modeling and Control of Biological Systems, Control of Linear and Nonlinear Systems, and Aircraft and Spacecraft Performance and Control. Research Interests Biological Control Systems, Biosecurity, Cellular Engineering, Nonlinear Control, Synthetic Biology, and Systems Biology. University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
