Thomas L. Jackson Primary Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimary Primary Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Thomas L. Jackson Research Scientist Phone: (352) 273-1243work Email: tlj@ufl.eduINTERNET BiographyDr. Thomas L. Jackson (Citizenship: USA). Dr. Thomas L. Jackson is a Research Scientist in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Previously he was Technical Manager for the Center for Compressible Multiphase Turbulence at the University of Florida. He received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1985, after which he joined the staff of the Institute for Computer Applications in Science and Engineering (ICASE). From 1987 to 1992 he has been an Assistant and then an Associate Professor at Old Dominion University in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics. In 1993 he returned to ICASE for five years before moving to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. At Illinois he was a Research Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering and a Computational Science and Engineering Affiliate. In January 2014 he moved to the University of Florida, Gainesville, where he now works. He has co-edited two books, co-authored a textbook on hydrodynamic stability, and authored or co-authored more than 250 papers. He is currently a Fellow of APS, a Fellow of ASME, a Fellow of the Combustion Institute, and an Associate Fellow of AIAA. He has been an Associate Editor for AIAA Journal, and is currently a member of the Editorial Advisory Board for AIAA Journal of Propulsion and Power. His expertise is in the area of fluid mechanics, multiphase flows, combustion, stability, solid propellant combustion, energetic material modeling, particle packing, and the large-scale simulation. Education PhD, Mathematics, 1985, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Teaching Interests Rocket Propulsion, Combustion, Fluid Mechanics Research Interests Fluid mechanics, multiphase flows, combustion, stability, solid propellant combustion, energetic material modeling, particle packing, and the large-scale simulation. University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
