Assistant Professors Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board Awards Department Chairs Message History Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access (IDEA) News Health & Safety Vision and Mission People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff External Advisory Board In Memoriam Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information REEF Available PhD Research Positions Solar Energy Park Ways to Give W.E. Rise Mentorship Program myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2021 Course Schedule Fall 2021 Course Schedule Spring 2022 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimaryAssistant Professors Assistant Professors Pages Faculty Primary Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Professors Engineers Research Scientists Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services External Advisory Board Alumni Bio Form In Memoriam Organization Chart Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y Matthew T. Hale Assistant Professor (352) 294-0436work matthewhale@ufl.eduINTERNET Matthew Hale received his BSE summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received his MS and PhD from Georgia Tech. His work is driven by designing and analyzing multi-agent coordination algorithms that function well under challenging conditions, such as asynchronous information sharing, noisy communications, and user privacy requirements. His work deploys these algorithms on teams of flying and ground robots, providing both validation of the underlying theory and further research directions. View Profile Ryan W. Houim Assistant Professor (352) 392-7164work rhouim@ufl.eduINTERNET Ryan Houim received his BSME from North Dakota State University and his MS and Ph.D. degrees from the Pennsylvania State University. He was a National Research Council post-doctoral fellow at the Naval Research Laboratory and a Research Assistant Professor at the University of Maryland prior to joining the University of Florida. His research is focused on understanding the dynamics of multiphase and chemically reactive flows using numerical simulation techniques. View Profile Amor A. Menezes Assistant Professor (352) 294-0470work amormenezes@ufl.eduINTERNET Amor A. Menezes is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, an affiliate of the J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Biomedical Engineering, an affiliate of the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, and a member of the Institute for Cell & Tissue Science and Engineering at the University of Florida. His group applies dynamical systems theory and control engineering methods in the fields of systems biology and synthetic biology. View Profile Steven A. E. Miller Assistant Professor (352) 392-0886work saem@ufl.eduINTERNET Prof. Steven A. E. Miller, Ph.D., conducts research in theoretical fluid dynamics, theoretical aeroacoustics, and related disciplines. He joined the University of Florida Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering in August of 2016. For seven years he was a United States government civil servant and was appointed to the position of theoretical aeroacoustician (research aerospace engineer) at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Langley Research Center, Aeroacoustics Branch. View Profile Patrick Musgrave Assistant Professor 352-392-6230work pmusgrave@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Patrick Musgrave received his PhD from Virginia Tech in 2018 and BSc & BSE from the University of Pittsburgh in 2012. Dr. Musgraves research focuses on adaptive and morphing systems operating in fluidic environments, in particular systems subject to dynamic fluid-structure interactions. These systems are inherently multi-physical and sit at the intersection of structures, hydro/aerodynamics, mechatronics, smart materials, and controls. View Profile Jing Pan Assistant Professor (352) 294-6869work jingpan@ufl.eduINTERNET Jing Pan received his PhD from Purdue University in 2017. His research focuses on developing nanoscale machineries for biotechnology applications. He conducted his postdoctoral research at Stanford University School of Medicine, where he demonstrated translational impact of his work in novel biosensors and molecular diagnostics. Education Postdoc, 2019 Stanford University Ph.D, 2017 Purdue University B.S, 2011 Xian Jiaotong University Teaching Interests Heat and Mass Transfer; Classical and Statistical Thermodynamics; Modern Optics and Imaging System Engineering; Biodesign Research Interests Macromolecular Machines; Directed Evolution; Self-assembly and self-organization; Bio-nanotechnology; Synthetic Biology; Medical Technology. View Profile Jane Jaejeong Shin Assistant Professor 352-392-3140work jshin2@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile Xin Tang Assistant Professor xin.tang@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Xin Tang received his Ph.D. from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Post-doctoral Fellow training from Harvard University. His research interests include cell and molecular mechanics in cancer development and metastasis, cardiovascular system, and neurons; unconventional mechano-electrophysiology; quantitative in vivo/vitro functional bio-imaging; bio-nanotechnology; and development of new biophysical tools to probe biological function/structure. Education Ph.D., 2013, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Teaching Interests Active Soft Matter Biophysics; Biomechanics at Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Scales; Quantitative Optical Bio-imaging; Continuum Mechanics; and Finite-element Analysis Research Interests Biomechanics, Mechanobiology and Soft Matter: Cell and molecular mechanics in cancer development and metastasis, cardiovascular system, and neurons; unconventional mechano-electrophysiology; quantitative in vivo/vitro functional bio-imaging; bio-nanotechnology; and development of new biophysical tools to probe biological function/structure View Profile Yu Wang Assistant Professor 352-846-3599work yuwang1@ufl.eduINTERNET View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250, Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961, Fax: 352-392-7303Graduate Student Advising: 352-392-0808 Undergraduate Student Advising: 352-392-0962 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Campus Tours Academic Catalogs Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
