Faculty Research Summaries - Erik Jonsson School of Engineering & Computer Science at The University of Texas at Dallas Skip to Main Content. Skip to Main Navigation. Skip to Main Footer. Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science About About back Overview Vision and Mission What is MSE? Advisory Board Contact Us Undergraduate Undergraduate back Overview Nano Minor Nano Certificate Cross-Track Graduate Graduate back Overview Admissions FAQ Non-Degree Seeking Advising & Requirements Research Research back Overview Facilities Our Team Our Team back Overview Faculty Faculty Summaries Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Scientists/Professors Department Head Website Staff Department Resources Travel FAQ Lab Safety Connect Connect back Overview Make a Gift News Events Recruitment and Outreach REU Program Recruitment Weekend Student Organizations News News back News Alumni News MSE News Brochure Newsletter Events Apply Virtual Tour Giving Alumni About Academics Research Our Team Connect News MSE Home > Our Team > Faculty > Faculty Research Summaries Faculty Research Summaries Orlando Auciello Auciello is directing several basic and applied research programs on different fields, namely: 1) science and technology of multi-component oxide thin films and application to devices (ferroelectric memories, novel correlated electron resistive change memories, nanoscale gates for CMOS devices, photovoltaic energy generation/storage devices, high-frequency devices, piezoelectric thin films for MEMS/NEMS devices (sensors and actuators); 2) science and technology of a novel ultrananocrystalline diamond (UNCD) film, developed and patented by Auciello and colleagues, and application to multifunctional devices and systems: a) UNCD coatings for electrodes, membranes, and inner wall cases of Li-ion batteries (LIBs) with 10x longer life and safer than current LIBs; b) UNCD coating for implantable biomedical devices (artificial retina microchip, currently in the market, restoring partial sight to people blinded by retina photoreceptors degeneration), artificial heart valves, stents, artificial joints (hips, knees); c) UNCD scaffolds for developmental biology (cell growth and differentiation); biosensors; d) RF MEMS/NEMS; e) electron field emission cathodes (for flat panel displays, mass spectrometers, X-ray sources); f) components with superior tribological performance (UNCD-coated mechanical pump seals, gears and other components, in the market by Advanced Diamond Technologies (company founded by Auciello and colleagues in 2003); g) electrodes for fuel cells, catalysis, water purification, and for neural stimulation. Kyeongjae (KJ) Cho KJ Chos main area of research and teaching is multiscale modeling and simulation of nanoscale materials. In his research group (Multiscale Simulation Lab), diverse modeling tools are developed and applied to nanomaterial design. The modeling methods include atomistic and quantum simulations. Structure-property relationships of nanomaterials (nanoparticles, nanowires, and nanoscale interfaces) are the main focus of modeling research. Research topics include metal nanoparticles, carbon nanotubes, semiconductor nanowires, and high-k gate stack interface problems. Main applications areas are electronic device materials, biotechnology, and clean energy technology. Massimo (Max) V. Fischetti Electronic transport in large semiconductor devices can be studied using simplifying assumptions afforded by the large size of the devices, mainly, the assumption of incoherent transport amenable to the semi-classical Boltzmann picture and of a bulk-like electronic structure of the conductive channel, assumption which permits the use of either the effective-mass approximation or of a full-band (but still bulk) description. Neither of these assumptions is valid in the sub-5 nm era: Novel materials (such as 2D materials and topological insulators), the small size of the devices, the strong quantum-confinement effects, and the likelihood of quasi-coherent transport require major changes in how we study electronic transport. Our research proceeds on three fronts in order to tackle these problems: Band-structure calculations (using Density-Functional Theory and Empirical Pseudopotentials), semi-classical electronic transport (using Monte Carlo simulations), and quantum transport (based on Empirical Pseudopotentials). Lev Gelb In molecular simulation research, powerful computers are used to accurately model real systems using statistical mechanics and quantum mechanics. This provides a sort of virtual laboratory in which almost any property can be measured or examined, including those which are not accessible to experiments. We use such simulations to develop an atomic-scale understanding of the behavior of complex systems. Our current research is in two broad areas. The first is modeling the structure and properties of amorphous porous materials such as aerogels and colloidal gel networks, and the second is simulating chemical reaction thermodynamics in protic ionic liquids. Finally, we are involved in collaborative research on advanced methods for the analysis of experimental surface chemical imaging data. Julia Hsu Prof. Hsus research focuses on nanoscale materials physics, in particular nanomaterials for optoelectronic and energy applications. She has done extensive work on local characterization of electronic and photonic materials and devices using scanning probe techniques. The material systems she has studied include metals and alloys, group IV, III-V and II-VI semiconductors, and oxides. She is most interested in how to tune macroscopic properties through materials synthesis and processing, e.g. band gap, work function, or surface chemistry of inorganic nanoparticles. In particular, her group focuses on the chemical and electronic properties at the organic-inorganic interface, with applications towards solar energy harvesting. On-going projects include organic photovoltaics, nanomaterial synthesis, solution processing of inorganic nanocrystals and thin films, synthesis and processing of few-layer transition metal dichalcogenides, electrical and optoelectronic studies of solar cells and transistors, nanocomposites for dielectric waveguides, and Earth-abundant oxides for toxic NOx abatement. Jiyoung Kim Research in J. Kims group focuses on innovative materials and their state-of-the-art devices employing atomic level process (atomic layer deposition (ALD), molecular layer deposition (MLD), atomic layer etching (ALE), etc.), for nanoelectronics, biomedical and energy devices applications: 1) Advanced Devices and Applications : More Moore (Scaling Devices) and Sub-5nm CMOS technology, Advanced memory devices and memory driven logics (Ferroelectric memory, DRAM/NANDs, Memristors, Memcapacitors), Power/RF/Analog device integration, Multilevel interconnections and Advanced packaging, Flexible devices, Sensor/Energy devices; 2) Innovative Nanoscale Materials : Alternative channel materials (III-V, Ge, 2D-Graphene, TMD, MIT, etc.) Organic-Inorganic Hybrid films, Novel Dielectrics (High-k, functional dielectrics, Low-k dielectrics) and metals (Metals, conducting oxide and nitride), Thermal spreader and barrier layers; 3) Atomic-level Precise Process : Novel ALD/MLD/ALE systems, In-situ characterization techniques, Molecular layer deposition, Selective ALD/ALE, Epitaxial ALD, SiOx/SiNx ALD, ALD for 0D, 1D, 2D and 3D nanostructures. Moon Kim Dr. Kims current research includes nanoscale fabrication and atomic scale characterization of various functional nanostructures/devices for applications in nano-electronics, power electronics, energy, electrochemical and bio-devices, and virtual reality (VR) contents for enhanced education and Artificial Intelligence (AI) platforms for new emerging applications. Manuel Quevedo-Lopez Flexible electronics is an exciting technology which requires expertise in several areas such as physics, chemistry and engineering. Therefore, the students in our group will not only gain experience with state-of-the-art instrumentation and techniques but also gain an understanding of the interdisciplinary nature of this area. Flexible electronics has many new applications, ranging from large area sensors to flexible displays to roll-up photovoltaics. However, to make flexible electronics a viable technology a number of key components still need to be developed including memory, logic, analog devices and amplifiers. Current projects include: Sensors for Detecting Radiation; Nano-Engineered Materials for Flexible Electronics; Process Integration (nMOS, pMOS, CMOS, etc); Device Modeling and Simulation; Energy Harvesting and Storage. William Vandenberghe At the macroscopic scale, materials and devices can be described using classical and semiclassical physics, but at the nanoscale, quantum mechanical effects such as tunneling, quantum confinement or spin-orbit coupling are often dominant. While these quantum effects are mostly detrimental for performance in conventional devices such as transistors, quantum effects present a great opportunity for new devices. Our research focuses on the study of electron transport at the nanoscale using theoretical methods towards the development of new materials and devices. Specifically, we want to exploit quantum mechanical effects to realize new devices with improved performance, energy-efficiency or new functionality. For example 1) we analyze how band-to-band tunneling can be used to make transistors with very steep turn-on characteristics, 2) we determine the electronic conductivity and dielectric properties in new two-dimensional materials from first principles to seek out the most promising materials, 3) we study how the spin-polarized edge/surface states of topological insulators can lead to devices that are robust against defects and impurities or how fast and energy-efficient nano-scale magnetic memory devices can be fabricated, or, 4) we study electron transport starting from first principles in non-crystalline nanoscale materials which is important for thin-film transistors or photovoltaics Walter Voit The Advanced Polymer Research Lab uses shape memory polymers and other engineered plastics to solve problems in flexible electronics, neural interfaces, energy harvesting, acoustics, sensors, and advanced manufacturing. Notable is the ability to insert penetrating neural implants while stiff and their ability to soften inside the body to lead to improved chronic responses. Research includes the thermomechanics of polymer systems and interface chemistry with thin film conductors and organic semiconductors. Amy Walker The ultimate goal of Amy Walkers research is the development of simple, robust materials for constructing complex two- and three-dimensional surfaces by manipulating interfacial chemistry. Metal/SAM, semiconductor/SAM and biomolecule/SAM structures have applications in organic electronics, sensing, catalysis, photovoltaics and optoelectronics. Her group also develops analytical techniques to probe the structures produced. The Walker group employs surface science techniques, in particular time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF SIMS) and reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIRS) and calculations of molecular structure (density functional theory, DFT) in this work. TOF SIMS is a unique widely applicable technique that provides detailed information about the chemical composition of surfaces with sub-micron lateral resolution, and is used in areas from biological systems to materials science. Robert Wallace Research in the Wallace group focuses on the study of surfaces and interfaces, particularly with applications to electronic materials and the resultant devices fabricated from them. Driven by integrated circuit scaling and industrial experience, our work has led to participation on several nationally renowned academic centers sponsored by the Semiconductor Research Corporation with tasks focusing on the interfacial physics and chemistry of metals and dielectrics in contact with semiconductor and semimetal surfaces, and the resultant device behavior correlations. Our current interests include materials systems which (1) extend complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor devices as well as (2) materials systems leading to concepts beyond CMOS-based logic. Chadwin Young Research interests include electrical characterization and reliability methodologies. Novel characterization development: involved the measurement and evaluation of transistors and capacitors of experimental gate stacks and device structures (alternative gate electrodes, ultra-thin oxides, oxynitrides, and high-dielectric constant insulators, non-planar devices, and high mobility substrates). Engaged in the electrical characterization and reliability of projected material and device architectures below the 22 nm node as defined by the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors (ITRS) as well as other future device architectures, which can call for high-k dielectrics and high mobility and/or flexible substrate material systems. Our Team Faculty Faculty Summaries Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Scientists Emeritus Professors Staff Department Resources Travel FAQ Lab Safety Faculty OrientationT.A. Orientation The University of Texas at Dallas Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science 800 W. Campbell Road Richardson, TX 75080-3021 972.883.2111 Fearlessengineering Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science 800 W. Campbell Road Richardson, TX 75080-3021 972.883.2974 The University of Texas at Dallas Last Updated: December 13, 2016 About Leadership Corporate Partners At a Glance Facilities Contact Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Education Certificates Innovation Research Research Awards Research Centers Research Institutes Engage Students Alumni Corporate Engagement Giving News Pulsar Stories Newsletter
