UH Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to Main Content About EE & CENG Mission Statement Objectives & Outcomes ALOHAnet Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Prospective Students Admission Information Tuition Information Current Students Degree Requirements Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering BAM (BS & MS) Concentrations Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules Planned Offerings EE Technical Electives CENG Technical Electives Engineering Breadth Highlighted Courses x96 Projects EE 296 EE 396 EE 496 Instructions for EE496 Advising TA Office Hours Forms Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Tuition Information Admitted Students Local Information Current Students Degree Requirements Master's Degree Doctoral Degree BAM (BS & MS) Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules TA Responsibilities Student Rights Forms Seminar Policy Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Research Biomedical Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Computer Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Electrophysics Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Power & Energy Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Systems & Data Science Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses People Computer Engineering Electrophysics Systems & Data Science Staff News&Events Latest News EE Seminars Theses and Dissertations Undergraduate Presentations Affiliate Events Conferences Alumni Events Outstanding Graduating Seniors Highlighted Courses Resources Student Organizations Computer Information Career Opportunities University Resources Faculty Recruiting Faculty Web Console Electrical&ComputerEngineering 2540DoleStreet,HolmesHall483 Honolulu,HI96822USA (808)956-7586 Olga Bori-Lubecke Professor Overview (808) 956-9648 POST 205K Curriculum Vitae Courses Taught Olga Boric-Lubecke received the B.Sc. degree from the University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Yugoslavia, in 1989, the M.S. degree from the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, in 1990, and the Ph.D. degree from the University of California at Los Angeles, in 1995, all in electrical engineering. Since 2003, she has been with the University of Hawaii at Mnoa, where she is currently a Professor of Electrical Engineering. Prior to joining UH, she was a Member of the Technical Staff with Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, NJ, where she conducted research in RF integrated circuit technology and biomedical applications of wireless systems. From 1996 to 1998 she was a visiting researcher at the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research, in Sendai, Japan. From 1995 to 1996 she was a resident research associate at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA. She has authored or coauthored over 180 journal and conference publications, two books and several book chapters. Her publications have been cited over 2700 times, and her research has been featured by various media outlets. She has two patents and is a distinguished member of the National Academy of Inventors, UH Chapter. Dr. Boric-Lubecke was co-recipient of the Emerging Technology Award at TechConnect 2007, and co-founded and served as Chief Technical Advisor for a start-up company, Kai Medical. She is also co-founder and president of Adnoviv, LLC. Her current research interests include silicon RF integrated circuits, high-frequency integrated circuits, biomedical applications, and renewable energy. She has advised nine PhD students, eight MS students, and over sixty undergraduate projects. Her current undergraduate projects include Non-contact Detection of Heart and Respiration Activity, and Wearable Biosensors.Prof. Boric -Lubecke was the adviser for Student Paper Competition Award winning papers at the 2001 IEEE IMS (Honorable Mention), 2001 IEEE EMBS Conference (Third Place), and 2003 IEEE IMS (First Place), and co-author of a paper that received an Honorable Mention award at the 2006 IEEE RWS. She serves on the Technical Program Committee for the IEEE IMS, and on the MTT-S Technical Committee on Wireless Communications (MTT-20). She served as the workshop chair for the 2003 IEEE IMS, and as technical program vice-chair for 2007 IEEE IMS. She served as associate editor for the IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, and for the IEEE EMBC from 2012 to 2015. She currently serves as associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. She served as SWE faculty advisor 2007-2014, and currently serves as SWE counselor. Prof. Boric Lubecke is an IEEE Fellow and Foreign Member of the Academy of Engineering of Serbia.
