UH Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to Main Content About EE & CENG Mission Statement Objectives & Outcomes ALOHAnet Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Prospective Students Admission Information Tuition Information Current Students Degree Requirements Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering BAM (BS & MS) Concentrations Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules Planned Offerings EE Technical Electives CENG Technical Electives Engineering Breadth Highlighted Courses x96 Projects EE 296 EE 396 EE 496 Instructions for EE496 Advising TA Office Hours Forms Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Tuition Information Admitted Students Local Information Current Students Degree Requirements Master's Degree Doctoral Degree BAM (BS & MS) Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules TA Responsibilities Student Rights Forms Seminar Policy Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Research Biomedical Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Computer Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Electrophysics Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Power & Energy Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Systems & Data Science Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses People Computer Engineering Electrophysics Systems & Data Science Staff News&Events Latest News EE Seminars Theses and Dissertations Undergraduate Presentations Affiliate Events Conferences Alumni Events Outstanding Graduating Seniors Highlighted Courses Resources Student Organizations Computer Information Career Opportunities University Resources Faculty Recruiting Faculty Web Console Electrical&ComputerEngineering 2540DoleStreet,HolmesHall483 Honolulu,HI96822USA (808)956-7586 Jeffrey Weldon Associate Professor Overview (808) 956-7416 Holmes 441 Curriculum Vitae Courses Taught Jeffrey Weldon is an associate professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering. He joined the department in 2017. Prior to joining UH, he was an associate professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University where he was the Sathaye Early Career Professor. Jeffrey Weldon received the B.S. degree in engineering physics from the University of California, Berkeley, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, in 2005. From 2006 to 2010 he was a postdoctoral scholar at the Center for Integrated Nanomechanical Systems. Dr. Weldon joined the faculty at Carnegie Mellon University in 2011 as an assistant professor. His doctoral research in the area of RF CMOS integrated circuits has been widely adopted by industry and is frequently cited in journals and conferences. His postdoctoral research on the carbon nanotube radio was extensively covered by the popular and scientific press, including Scientific American. His current research interests include nanoscale device design in emerging technologies, heterogeneous integration with CMOS for data-intensive applications and applications of nanotechnology to biomedical devices. He is a member of the ISSCC Student Research Preview committee. Dr. Weldon received the 2001 ISSCC Lewis Winner Award for Outstanding Paper and was the recipient of the 1998 ISSCC Jack Kilby Award for Outstanding Student Paper.
