UH Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to Main Content About EE & CENG Mission Statement Objectives & Outcomes ALOHAnet Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Prospective Students Admission Information Tuition Information Current Students Degree Requirements Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering BAM (BS & MS) Concentrations Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules Planned Offerings EE Technical Electives CENG Technical Electives Engineering Breadth Highlighted Courses x96 Projects EE 296 EE 396 EE 496 Instructions for EE496 Advising TA Office Hours Forms Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Tuition Information Admitted Students Local Information Current Students Degree Requirements Master's Degree Doctoral Degree BAM (BS & MS) Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules TA Responsibilities Student Rights Forms Seminar Policy Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Research Biomedical Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Computer Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Electrophysics Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Power & Energy Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Systems & Data Science Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses People Computer Engineering Electrophysics Systems & Data Science Staff News&Events Latest News EE Seminars Theses and Dissertations Undergraduate Presentations Affiliate Events Conferences Alumni Events Outstanding Graduating Seniors Highlighted Courses Resources Student Organizations Computer Information Career Opportunities University Resources Faculty Recruiting Faculty Web Console Electrical&ComputerEngineering 2540DoleStreet,HolmesHall483 Honolulu,HI96822USA (808)956-7586 Galen Sasaki Associate Professor Home Page Overview Educational Activities Publications Students Other Activities (808) 956-6103 Holmes 436 Curriculum Vitae Courses Taught Galen H. Sasaki received his B.S. from the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Hawaii at Manoa in 1981, and received his M.S. and PhD. from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1984 and 1987,respectively. Since 1992, he has been an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. He was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin from 1987 until 1992. Dr. Sasaki was a visiting researcher at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington D.C. (Summer of 1990), IBM Watson Research during the Summers (Summers 1995 and 1996), and Tellabs (Summer 1997). He was a consultant for Fujitsu Laboratories of America, Nortel, and Skyware. He was a recipient of a 1989 National Science Foundation, Presidential Young Investigator Award. He was an associate editor for the IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networkingand theIEEETransactions onInformationTheory,and was a co-editor of an Optical Networks issue of the IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications. His research interests are in communication networks with an emphasis on optical networks, performance evaluation, scheduling, routing, protection, and quality of service.
