UH Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to Main Content About EE & CENG Mission Statement Objectives & Outcomes ALOHAnet Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Prospective Students Admission Information Tuition Information Current Students Degree Requirements Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering BAM (BS & MS) Concentrations Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules Planned Offerings EE Technical Electives CENG Technical Electives Engineering Breadth Highlighted Courses x96 Projects EE 296 EE 396 EE 496 Instructions for EE496 Advising TA Office Hours Forms Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Tuition Information Admitted Students Local Information Current Students Degree Requirements Master's Degree Doctoral Degree BAM (BS & MS) Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules TA Responsibilities Student Rights Forms Seminar Policy Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Research Biomedical Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Computer Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Electrophysics Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Power & Energy Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Systems & Data Science Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses People Computer Engineering Electrophysics Systems & Data Science Staff News&Events Latest News EE Seminars Theses and Dissertations Undergraduate Presentations Affiliate Events Conferences Alumni Events Outstanding Graduating Seniors Highlighted Courses Resources Student Organizations Computer Information Career Opportunities University Resources Faculty Recruiting Faculty Web Console Electrical&ComputerEngineering 2540DoleStreet,HolmesHall483 Honolulu,HI96822USA (808)956-7586 Franklin Kuo Emeritus Professor Overview send inquiries to eeoffice@hawaii.edu for contact Frank Kuo is a pioneer in wireless networking. In the early 1960's, he did research in computer communications at Bell Laboratories, in Murray Hill, NJ. At that time he published his first book - Network Analysis and Synthesis (John Wiley). He left in 1966 to join the UH Electrical Engineering Department as a full professor. During the years 1968 to 1972, he and Norman Abramson developed the ALOHAnet, the worlds first wireless packet network. It formed the basis of Ethernet and Wifi systems. In 1972, he and Norm published the first book on computer networking - Computer Communication Networks (Prentice Hall).During two years on leave from Hawaii, in 1976-77, he was the Director of Information Systems, in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, in the Pentagon.In the 1980s, at SRI International he led many projects in networking and information systems applications. One of them was the first NSF project on the architecture of the NSF network for science and education. The project served as the baseline for the architectural definition of NSFNET.He also worked part-time at Stanford University, as a Consulting Professor in Electrical Engineering, and as a Mentor in the Stanford Business School.During that period he was a member of the NSF advisory committee on supercomputer networks. For two years he served as a special consultant to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy on the High Performance Computing and Communications (HPCC) initiative.In 1994, Frank was a co-founder of General Wireless Communications, Inc., which has been renamed as Mtone Wireless Corporation. It is a major supplier for short messaging and cellphone games in China.Dr. Kuo received the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Illinois in Urbana Champaign. He is an IEEE Fellow and a recipient of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Award.
