UH Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to Main Content About EE & CENG Mission Statement Objectives & Outcomes ALOHAnet Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Prospective Students Admission Information Tuition Information Current Students Degree Requirements Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering BAM (BS & MS) Concentrations Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules Planned Offerings EE Technical Electives CENG Technical Electives Engineering Breadth Highlighted Courses x96 Projects EE 296 EE 396 EE 496 Instructions for EE496 Advising TA Office Hours Forms Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Tuition Information Admitted Students Local Information Current Students Degree Requirements Master's Degree Doctoral Degree BAM (BS & MS) Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules TA Responsibilities Student Rights Forms Seminar Policy Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Research Biomedical Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Computer Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Electrophysics Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Power & Energy Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Systems & Data Science Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses People Computer Engineering Electrophysics Systems & Data Science Staff News&Events Latest News EE Seminars Theses and Dissertations Undergraduate Presentations Affiliate Events Conferences Alumni Events Outstanding Graduating Seniors Highlighted Courses Resources Student Organizations Computer Information Career Opportunities University Resources Faculty Recruiting Faculty Web Console Electrical&ComputerEngineering 2540DoleStreet,HolmesHall483 Honolulu,HI96822USA (808)956-7586 Victor M. Lubecke Professor Overview (808) 956-4942 Post 205J Curriculum VitaeCourses Taught Victor M. Lubecke received the B.S.E.E. degree from the California Polytechnic Institute, Pomona, in 1986, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, in 1990 and 1995, respectively. He is currently a Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Hawaii, Manoa, in Honolulu Hawaii. Prior to joining the University of Hawaii in 2003, he was with Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, where his research focused on sensing and monitoring technologies for biomedical and industrial applications and on microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and 3-D wafer-scale integration technologies for wireless and optical communications. From 1987 through 1996, he was with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), and from 1996 to 1998, he was with the Institute for Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN), Sendai, Japan, where his research involved remote sensing and space communications applications and related microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and terahertz technologies. Dr. Lubecke holds seven issued U.S. patents with several more pending and is a distinguished member of the National Academy of Inventors, UH Chapter. He has published over 150 peer-reviewed research articles with over 3000 citations. Dr. Lubecke was the recipient of the 2000 Microwave Prize for best paper presented at the AsiaPacific Microwave Conference. He also coauthored student competition papers, which were selected for honorable mention at the 2001 IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium (IMS), Third Place at the 2001 IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS) Conference, First Place at the 2003 IEEE MTT-S IMS, and honorable mention at the 2006 IEEE Radio Wireless Symposium (RWS). Dr. Lubecke was also co-recipient of the Emerging Technology Award at TechConnect 2007, and co-founded and served as CTO for a start-up company, Kai Medical. He is currently a co-founder and vice president for Adnoviv Technologies in Honolulu, HI. His current research interests include remote sensing and imaging technologies, biomedical sensors, animal tracking and monitoring, MEMS, heterogeneous integration, and microwave/terahertz radio. He has advised eight PhD students, four MS students, and over sixty undergraduate research project students. His current undergraduate projects include technology for UAV based sensors for search and rescue.Dr. Lubecke is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He is an emeritus Distinguished Microwave Lecturer (20062008) of the IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques Society (IEEE MTT-S), and a Topic Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Terahertz Science and Technology. He is also a member of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology and Electron Devices societies, and serves on Technical and Steering Committees for various IEEE and SPIE symposia. He is currently Vice Chair of the 2017 IEEE International Microwave Symposium, to be held in Honolulu, HI.
