UH Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to Main Content About EE & CENG Mission Statement Objectives & Outcomes ALOHAnet Contact Us Giving Undergraduate Prospective Students Admission Information Tuition Information Current Students Degree Requirements Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering BAM (BS & MS) Concentrations Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules Planned Offerings EE Technical Electives CENG Technical Electives Engineering Breadth Highlighted Courses x96 Projects EE 296 EE 396 EE 496 Instructions for EE496 Advising TA Office Hours Forms Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students How to Apply Tuition Information Admitted Students Local Information Current Students Degree Requirements Master's Degree Doctoral Degree BAM (BS & MS) Courses Course Descriptions Course Syllabi Class Schedules TA Responsibilities Student Rights Forms Seminar Policy Scholarships & Financial Aid Assistantship Opportunities Research Biomedical Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Computer Engineering Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Electrophysics Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Power & Energy Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses Systems & Data Science Groups & Projects Related Graduate Courses People Computer Engineering Electrophysics Systems & Data Science Staff News&Events Latest News EE Seminars Theses and Dissertations Undergraduate Presentations Affiliate Events Conferences Alumni Events Outstanding Graduating Seniors Highlighted Courses Resources Student Organizations Computer Information Career Opportunities University Resources Faculty Recruiting Faculty Web Console Electrical&ComputerEngineering 2540DoleStreet,HolmesHall483 Honolulu,HI96822USA (808)956-7586 Vassilis Syrmos Professor Overview Publications Funding Other Activities syrmos@hawaii.edu Curriculum VitaeVassilis Syrmos obtained his Ph.D. at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, U.S.A. in 1991, in Electrical Engineering. Since 1991, he has been with the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where he is a Professor and the Associate Vice Chancellor for Research and Graduate Education. He also served as the Associate Dean of the College of Engineering and the Interim Director of Science and Technology for the Research Corporation of the University of Hawaii. He spent a sabbatical leave at The Boeing Company as a Research Fellow. His interests include geometric and algebraic approaches in linear system theory, computational algorithms methods for signal and image processing, robust/optimal filter design in systems, medical imaging, and prognostics and diagnostics methods related to condition based maintenance systems. He is the author/coauthor of more than 100 journal and conference papers and the book Optimal Control, 2nd edition, John Wiley, 1995. He was an Associate Editor of Circuits, Systems, and Signal Processing. He has served in numerous international conferences in technical program committees, editorial boards and organizing committees. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Office of Naval Research, the Naval Air Systems Command, the Naval Sea Systems Command, The Boeing Company, Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), and Hawaiian Electric Company. Dr. Syrmos has been a consultant for the Canada France Hawaii Telescope (CFHT), Innovative Solutions (Nova-Sol), Science Technology International and others. He is a Boeing A.D. Welliver Fellow, a member of the board of Hawaii Technology Development Venture program, a member of the Sigma Xi research organization, and a senior member of IEEE.
