Faculty Profile for Lawrence Neeley, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Lawrence Neeley News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Lawrence Neeley, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Design and Entrepreneurship Milas Hall 364 781-292-2569 lawrence.neeley@olin.edu @LawrenceNeeley EducationPh.D., Mechanical Engineering, Stanford University M.S., Mechanical Engineering, Stanford University B.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Maryland, Baltimore County Select Courses TaughtProducts & MarketsLaunchIterateAwardsStanford University Legacy Achievement Award given by the Black Community Services Center Silver medal in IDEA2003 for the design of a wine decanting cradle Stanford School of Engineering Dean's Doctoral Distinction Diversity Award Biography Dr. Lawrence Neeley joined the Olin faculty as an Assistant Professor of Design and Entrepreneurship in 2011. He brings to Olin his passion for design, prototyping, manufacturing and entrepreneurship; and strives to share these passions with his students and the Olin community. Both his research and educational efforts help designers rapidly imagine, realize and offer compelling real world products. Before coming to Olin full time, Dr. Neeley spent three years as a postdoctoral associate in mechanical engineering at nearby MIT. During this time, he also had the pleasure of teaching User-Oriented Collaborative Design (the sophomore design class) at Olin every spring semester. In 2007, Dr. Neeley served as a global manufacturing research fellow for the Stanford Product Realization Network. In this role he conducted and documented site visits of manufacturing facilities associated with a multitude of industries in California and Shenzhen, China. Dr. Neeley holds a Ph.D. and an M.S. in mechanical engineering from the Center for Design Research at Stanford University where he received the Stanford University Legacy Achievement Award given by the Black Community Services Center, a silver medal in IDEA2003 for the design of a wine decanting cradle and the Stanford School of Engineering Dean's Doctoral Distinction Diversity Award. His dissertation research was in the area of adaptive design expertise. His thesis: A Theory of Design Thinking and Innovation examined the nature and nurture of design thinking. Dr. Neeley also holds a B.S. in mechanical engineering from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County where he was a Meyerhoff Scholar and graduated as a member of the Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi academic honor societies. Outside of the classroom he enjoys imagining what might be and then making it so, cutting metal and anything related to custard. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
