Faculty Profile for Helen Donis-Keller, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Helen Donis-Keller News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Helen Donis-Keller, Ph.D. Professor of Biology and Art and Michael E. Moody Professor Milas Hall 366 781-292-2545 helen.donis-keller@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Harvard University H.B.Sc., Biology, Lakehead University B.Sc., Natural Science, Lakehead University Select Courses TaughtThe Intersection of Biology, Art and TechnologyResponsive Drawing and Visual ThinkingThe Digital Eye Biography As an artist and scientist for her entire adult life, Dr. Helen Donis-Keller observes, investigates, and interprets the natural world. Most broadly defined Dr. Donis-Kellers scientific work, and to a considerable extent her art, investigates the relationship between genotype and phenotype. The world-view of a natural scientist permeates her work and inspires a desire to facilitate access to genetic ideas through visual art. Dr. Donis-Keller has held leadership positions in the biotechnology industry and in academic science. She was Director of the Human Genetics Department at Collaborative Research, Inc. where she led the research group that developed the first genetic linkage map of the human genome. Later she was Professor of Surgery and Director of the Division of Human Molecular Genetics at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Her research group identified a gene and mutations that cause several forms of thyroid cancer. Her group also developed predictive diagnostic tests that served as preventative measures in the development of thyroid cancer. At Olin College Dr. Donis-Keller teaches courses in biology and in art that encourage active learning using a project-based approach. Also see Dr. Donis-Kellers website for additional details, HelenDonis-Keller.com Dr. Donis-Keller received a B.Sc. in natural science and an Honours B.Sc. in biology from Lakehead University in Ontario, Canada, a Ph.D. in biochemistry and molecular biology from Harvard University, and an MFA in studio art from the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and Tufts University. She was also awarded a Doctor of Science Degree (HonorisCausa) from Lakehead University. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
