Faculty Profile for Christopher Lee, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Christopher Lee News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Christopher Lee, Ph.D. Professor of Mechanical Engineering Milas Hall 327 781-292-2539 christopher.lee@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan M.S., Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of Michigan B.S., Mechanical Engineering, Cornell University Select Courses TaughtDynamicsMechanical and Aerospace SystemsMechanics of Solids and StructuresDynamics of Mechanical and Aerospace Structures Biography Prior to joining the Olin College faculty, Dr. Lee was a lead engineer in the New Technologies Engineering Division at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He was responsible for supporting lab programs through computational analysis and vibration measurements. His projects ranged from buildings (vibration signature based system identification) to micro-devices (portable bio-pathogen and chemical detectors, accelerometers, adaptive optics arrays) to medical systems (catheter-based device for the treatment of cerebral aneurysms, retinal prosthesis, novel breast cancer imaging system). He has co-patented a carbon-nanotube based acoustic sensor. His primary research interests are in the area of structural dynamics. Current and past projects include energy harvesting devices, grasping landing gear for UAVs, structural health monitoring, and the mechanics of DNA. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
