Faculty Profile for Yevgeniya V. Zastavker, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Yevgeniya V. Zastavker News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Yevgeniya V. Zastavker, Ph.D. Professor of Physics and Education Milas Hall 369 781-292-2520 yevgeniya.zastavker@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Biological Physics, MIT B.S., Physics, Yale University Select Courses TaughtMechanics: A Theoretical ApproachAdvanced Classical MechanicsBiological MechanicsElectricity and MagnetismTeaching and Learning in Undergraduate Science and Engineering CoursesWhat's Your Story? Narrative with Purpose (a.k.a. Critical Reflective Writing)ResearchStudent motivation Teamwork in engineering design courses Induction of engineering students into education and teaching careers Gender and engineering Design of project-based and integrated curricula Biography Prior to joining Olin, Dr. Zastavker was a visiting assistant professor of Physics at Wellesley College where she taught physics and performed biophysics research. Born and raised in Kiev, Ukraine, she came to the United States in 1990 having received two years of education at the Kiev Pedagogical College and a degree from one of Kiev 's Schools of Music. She graduated from Yale University with a B.S. in physics and holds a Ph.D. in biological physics from MIT. Dr. Zastavker's research interests lie in the field of STEM education with specific emphasis on innovative pedagogical and curricular practices at the intersection with the issues of gender and diversity. Dr. Zastavker is currently involved in an NSF-supported project to understand students motivational attitudes in a variety of educational environments with the goal of improving learning opportunities for students and equipping faculty with the knowledge and skills necessary to create such opportunities. This work is integrated with Dr. Zastavkers efforts to understand the ways in which such environments may be supported by critically reflective practices and how these environments serve to induct engineering students into educational careers. One of the founding faculty at Olin College, Dr. Zastavker has been engaged in development and implementation of project-based experiences in fields ranging from science to engineering and design to social sciences. All of these activities share a commongoal ofcreating curricular and pedagogical structures as well as academic cultures that facilitatestudents' interests, motivation, and desire to persist in engineering. Through this work, outreach, and involvement in the community, Dr.Zastavker continues to focus on the issues of women and minorities in science/engineering. Curriculum Vitae Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
