Carrie Nugent | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Carrie Nugent News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Carrie R. Nugent, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computational Physics and Planetary Science MH 332 cnugent@olin.edu @listen2spacepod EducationPh.D., Geophysics and Space Physics, UCLASelect Courses TaughtAstronomy and StatisticsMachine LearningSoftware DesignEnvironmental Consulting at OlinAreas Of InterestNear-Earth Asteroids, Planetary Science, Physics, Astronomy, Data Science, Machine Learning, Science CommunicationAwardsCarl Sagan Medal for Excellence in Public Communication in Planetary Science Asteroid 8801 Nugent TED Senior Fellow Alumni Hall of Fame, Mira Costa High School NASA Group Achievement Award UCLA Collegium of University Teaching Fellowship AAAS Mass Media Fellowship Biography Dr. Carrie Nugent is a scientist, a professor, an author, a TED senior fellow, an enthusiastic science communicator and a firm believer that space exploration is for everyone. Her research focuses on asteroid detection. An asteroid impact is the only natural disaster we have the technology to prevent. But since prevention takes time, it's important to search for near-Earth asteroids now. Working with Olin students, Dr. Nugent uses techniques such as machine learning to discover asteroids in large data sets. Before coming to Olin, she was a member of NASA's NEOWISE and NEOCam asteroid-hunting mission teams and a scientist at Caltech/IPAC. A TED Senior Fellow, her talk Adventures of an Asteroid Hunter has been viewed over a million times. She is the author of the popular science book "Asteroid Hunters" (2017, TED Books, Simon and Schuster). She produces and hosts Spacepod, a podcast that features casual conversations with astronomers, planetary scientists and engineers. She also wrote the script for this TED-ED animation about the first asteroid ever discovered. Select Publications "Asteroid Hunters," Simon and Schuster, 2017 Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
