Faculty Profile for David Barrett, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home David Barrett News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty David Barrett, Ph.D. Professor of Mechanical Engineering 781-292-2556 david.barrett@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Ocean Engineering, MIT M.S., Mechanical Engineering, MIT B.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Lowell Select Courses TaughtIntroduction to Mechanical PrototypingMechanical DesignRobotics 1ResearchRobotics Biography With over 25 years of experience in the robotics industry, Dr. Barrett has built robotic systems for a wide variety of government, commercial and industrial customers. Dr. Barrett received his Ph.D. and M.S. in ocean engineering and M.S. in mechanical engineering from MIT. He received his B.S. in mechanical engineering from the University of Lowell. He teaches mechanical engineering and robotics at Olin. Prior to joining the Olin faculty, Dr. Barrett was vice president of Engineering at the iRobot Corporation. Prior to iRobot, he held positions as a director of the Walt Disney Imagineering Corporation, as a research engineer at MIT's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and as a technical director at Draper Laboratory. In addition to his many published articles, Dr. Barrett holds 15 patents with previous colleagues on a variety of robotic systems. He is a member of numerous professional societies including IEEE Robotics and Automation, Vehicular Technology and Ocean Engineering Societies. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
