Faculty Profile for Alison Wood, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Alison Wood News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Alison Wood, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Environmental Engineering MH356 781-292-2576 alison.wood@olin.edu EducationPh.D. Civil Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin M.S. Environmental and Water Resources Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin B.S. Civil and Environmental Engineering, Rutgers University A.B. Dramatic Literature, Harvard University Select Courses TaughtContext and ConsequencesChange the World: Personal Values, Global Impacts, and Making an Olin GCSPDecision-Making in Sustainable SystemsModeling and Simulation of the Physical WorldResearchDecision-making for sustainability in complex systems Sustainability, emphasizing equity and social justice Education, especially transdisciplinary integration Sustainable water and wastewaterAwardsNational Network for Environmental Management Studies Fellowship Walter L. and Reta Mae Moore Graduate Fellowship in Civil Engineering Trigg & Fannie E. Twichell Centennial Endowed Presidential Scholarship Engineering Foundation Endowed Graduate Presidential Scholarship Mara H. Wasburn Early Engineering Educator Grant Biography Dr. Alison Wood is an assistant professor of Environmental Engineering at Olin College of Engineering. Her academic interests include water and sanitation, interdisciplinary thinking and approaches to environmental and sustainability problems, and decision making in complex systems. Dr. Wood is also pursuing her interests in the areas of equity and justice through education and engagement with context and values. She serves as the Director of Olins Grand Challenges Scholars Program and the Director of the Babson-Olin-Wellesley Sustainability Certificate program, among many other internal and external engagements. After graduating from Harvard University with a B.A. in Dramatic Literature, Dr. Wood worked professionally in theater and wrote and recorded two musical albums. She then returned to school to study engineering, earning a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Rutgers University. Dr. Wood then went on to earn a Master of Science in Engineering in Environmental and Water Resources Engineering and a Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from The University of Texas at Austin, while working with the Austin chapter of Engineers Without Borders. Her love of learning was first fostered by an unusual elementary school education that was deeply interdisciplinary with a substantial arts curriculum, which has informed all her subsequent thinking about the potential for education to transcend conventional models. Her teaching at Olin continues to inspire her to realize the potential for education in the twenty-first century. Select Publications Wood, Alison, Arslan, Selin, Barrett, Jason, Brownell, Sarah, Herbert, Andrew Mark, Marshall, Matthew, Morano, Heidi, Oates, Karen, Spanagel, David, Winebrake, James, Zastavker, Yevgeniya. (Accepted 2019). Work in Progress: Transformation through Liberal Arts-Focused Grand Challenges Scholars Programs. Proceedings from American Society of Engineering Education Annual Conference and Exposition. Tampa, FL.Dusek, J., Faas, D., Ferrier, E., Goodner, R., Sarang-Sieminski, A., Waranyuwat, A., Wood, A. (2018). Active Inclusion of Neurodiverse Learning Styles in Project-Based Learning; A Call for Action. Proceedings from American Society of Engineering Education Annual Conference and Exposition. Salt Lake City, UT.Wood, A., Blackhurst, M., Lawler, D.F. (2017). Will U.S. Homeowners Adopt Eco-Toilets? Journal of Environmental Engineering.Wood, A., Blackhurst, M., Garland, J., Lawler, D.F. (2016). Incentivizing Decentralized Sanitation: The Role of Discount Rates. Environmental Science and Technology. DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.6b00385Wood, A., Blackhurst, M., Hawkins, T., Xue, X., Ashbolt, N., & Garland, J. (2015). Cost-Effectiveness of Nitrogen Mitigation by Alternative Household Wastewater Management Technologies. Journal of Environmental Management, 150, 344-354. DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2014.10.002 Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
