Gilda A. Barabino | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Full-Time Faculty Gilda A. Barabino Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Gilda A. Barabino, Ph.D. Professor of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering and President president.barabino@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Chemical Engineering, Rice University B.S., Chemistry, Xavier University of LouisianaResearchBiomedical & Chemical Engineering Global Health Sickle Cell Biomechanics Interdisciplinary Engineering Education Awards2019 AICE Award for Service to Society 2018 Joseph N. Cannon Award for Excellence in Chemical Engineering 2018 Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring 2017 Pierre Galetti Award 2016 Honorary degree, Xavier University of Louisiana Biography Gilda A. Barabino became the second president of Olin College of Engineering, and Professor of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering, on July 1, 2020. Previously she served as Dean of The Grove School of Engineering at the City College of New York (CCNY). She also served as Daniel and Frances Berg Professor, with appointments in the Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Chemical Engineering, as well as the City University of New York School of Medicine. A biomedical engineer trained in chemical engineering, with broad interest in global health, systems, and interdisciplinary engineering education, Dr. Barabino is a noted investigator in the areas of sickle cell disease, cellular and tissue engineering. She is an internationally recognized thought leader and highly sought speaker and consultant on race/ethnicity and gender in science and engineering, with particular focus on creating cultures and climates that support a sense of belonging. She has led a number of initiatives in these areas including serving as the founder and Executive Director of the National Institute for Faculty Equity. Before joining CCNY, she served as Associate Chair for Graduate Studies and Professor in the Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Tech and Emory University. She also served as Georgia Techs inaugural Vice Provost for Academic Diversity. Prior to that, she spent 18 years at Northeastern University, rising to the rank of Full Professor of Chemical Engineering and serving as Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Dr. Barabino is an active member of theNational Academy of Engineeringand theNational Academy of Medicineand serves on numerous committees of the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine, including theRoundtable on Black Men and Black Womenin Science, Engineering and Medicine; the Health and Medicine Division Committee; and theCommittee on Womenin Science Engineering and Medicinewhich she chairs. Dr. Barabino also serves as a member of the National Institutes of Healths National Advisory Council for Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering;National Science Foundations AdvisoryCommittee for Engineering;the congressionally mandatedCommittee on EqualOpportunities in Science and Engineering;and theAmerican Association for theAdvancement of Science Committee on Science, Engineering and Public Policy.Dr. Barabino also serves on theScientific Advisory Board of the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub. Her many honors include the American Institute of Chemical Engineers Award for Service to Society (2019); the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (2018); the Pierre Galetti Award (2017), the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineerings highest honor; and an honorary degree from Xavier University of Louisiana (2016). Dr. Barabino is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering, and the Biomedical Engineering Society. She sits on the board of trustees for VentureWell, Associated Universities, Inc., New York Hall of Science and Xavier University of Louisiana. Dr. Barabino earned her B.S. degree in Chemistry from Xavier University of Louisiana and her Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering from Rice University. She is married to Joseph Barabino. They have a son, Jori. Select Publications Barabino, GA. Reframing Innovation. Technology and Innovation, 20:161-163, 2019.Barabino G, Frize M, Ibrahim F, Kaldoui E, Lhotska L, Marcu L, Stoeva M, Tsapaki V, Bezak. Solutions to gender balance in STEM fields through support, training, education and mentoring: Report of the international women in medical physics and biomedical engineering task group. Science and Engineering Ethics, doi.org/10.1007/s11948-019-0097-0, 2019.Barabino GA. What looks like bravery in the academy: Reflections of an African-American Woman Engineer. In Counternarratives from women of color academics: Bravery, vulnerability and resistance, Whitaker and Grollman (ed,), Taylor and Frances/Routledge, 2019.Leggon CB, Barabino GA. Socializing African American female engineers into academic careers: The case of the cross-disciplinary initiative for minority women faculty (XD). In Changing the Face of Engineering: The African American Experience, Slaughter, Tao, Pearson, Jr. (eds.), Johns Hopkins University Press, 2015. Curriculum VitaePersonal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
