Faculty Profile for Debbie Chachra, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Debbie Chachra News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Debbie Chachra, Ph.D. Professor of Engineering Milas Hall 264 781-292-2546 debbie.chachra@olin.edu @debcha EducationPh.D., Materials Science, University of Toronto, 2001 M.A., Materials Science, University of Toronto, 1995 B.S., Engineering Science, University of Toronto, 1992 Select Courses TaughtStructural BiomaterialsMaterials Science and Solid State ChemistryDesign NatureBiomedical MaterialsResearchMaterials Science of natural materials Mechanical effects on cells AwardsASEE Best Paper Award NSF Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Award William Elgin Wickenden Award, American Society for Engineering Education Biography Dr. Chachra is committed to improving undergraduate engineering education. In addition to working closely with Olin students, she carries out research in the field, and speaks and writes widely on the topic, including writing a regular column, Reinvention, in the American Society for Engineering Educations Prism magazine. She also collaborates with educators worldwide, often through Olin Colleges Collaboratory and its programs. Dr. Chachras other research interests include gender and engineering, infrastructure, and biological materials (including a type of plastic made by bees). She also works at the intersection of technology and society, and has written commentaries for the Atlantic, the Guardian, the journal Nature, and the comic book Bitch Planet. Prior to joining the faculty of Olin College, Dr. Chachra was a postdoctoral associate at MIT in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering. She joined MIT from the University of Toronto, where she received her master's degree and Ph.D. in materials science. Dr. Chachra has a bachelor's degree in engineering science, also from the University of Toronto. She was a recipient of a National Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada postdoctoral fellowship and a Medical Research Council of Canada graduate fellowship, as well as numerous other honors for her research and publications. In 2010, she received an NSF CAREER Award in support of her research on engineering education. Select Publications Eris O, Chachra D, Chen HL, Sheppard S, Ludlow L, Rosca C, Bailey T, Toye G (2010) Outcomes of a longitudinal administration of the Persistence in Engineering survey. J Eng Ed Oct: 371-395.Chachra D, Limeback H, Willett T, Grynpas MD (2010) Assessing the long-term effects of water fluoridation on the human skeleton. J Dent Res 89:1219-1223. Chachra D, Limeback H, Willett T, Grynpas MD (2010) Assessing the long-term effects of water fluoridation on the human skeleton. J Dent Res 89:1219-1223. Wynnyckyj C, Omelon S, Savage K, Damani M, Chachra D, Grynpas MD (2009) A new tool to assess the mechanical properties of bone due to collagen degradation. Bone 44:840-848. Curriculum Vitae Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
