Faculty Profile for Lynn Andrea Stein, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Lynn Andrea Stein News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Lynn Andrea Stein, Ph.D. Professor of Computer & Cognitive Science - On Leave Fall 2021, Spring 2022 Milas Hall 358 On Leave 781-292-2525 las@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Computer Science, Brown University Sc.M., Computer Science, Brown University A.B., Computer Science, Harvard University Select Courses TaughtHuman Factors and Interface DesignFoundations of Computer ScienceWhat is "I"?Areas Of InterestThe Semantic Web Gender and Science Educational Innovation Biography Dr. Lynn Andrea Stein is professor of Computer and Cognitive Science at the Olin College of Engineering. Dr. Stein has a bachelor's degree, cum laude, in computer science from Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges and master's and doctorate degrees in computer science from Brown University. From 1990 to 2000, Dr. Stein was an assistant and then associate professor in the EECS Department at MIT and at the AI Laboratory and Laboratory for Computer Science there. Dr. Stein's research spans the fields of artificial intelligence, programming languages, and engineering and computer science education. She is a co-author of the foundational documents of the semantic web and the "mother" of a humanoid robot and an intelligent room. She is a frequent speaker at educational conferences on work including pioneering curricular applications of inexpensive robotics and a curriculum for introductory computer science. Dr. Stein has received the National Science Foundation Young Investigator Award, a Bunting Fellowship, and several educational awards; she has also served on the Executive Council of AAAI, on the Member Services Board of the ACM, and in various leadership positions as a woman in computing. Over the past two and a half decades, Stein has worked with the worldwide community to develop broader visions of computing and engineering education, running educational workshops, leading professional initiatives, and serving on advisory and visiting committees to a wide range of academic institutions and curricular programs. As a member of Olin College's founding faculty, Dr. Stein played a leadership role in many aspects of the development of the college. In 2009, Stein was named the founding director of Olin's Initiative for Innovation in Engineering Education. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
