Faculty Profile for Alisha Sarang-Sieminski, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Alisha Sarang-Sieminski News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Alisha Sarang-Sieminski, Ph.D. Dean of the CollegeProfessor of Engineering Campus Center 319D 781-292-2553 alisha.sarang-sieminski@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Bioengineering, University of Pennsylvania B.S., Chemical Engineering, MIT Select Courses TaughtSenior Capstone in Engineering (SCOPE)Biomedical Device DesignTopics in BioengineeringAreas Of InterestDiversity, equity, and inclusion Human-centered design Accessibility Biography Dr. Alisha Sarang-Sieminski (they/them) is the dean of the college and professor of engineering at Olin College. Dr. Sarang-Sieminski is passionate about creating and supporting undergraduate educational experiences that promote student thriving and development as whole people. They have a BS in chemical engineering from MIT, a PhD in bioengineering from University of Pennsylvania, and did their postdoctoral work in the Biological Engineering Division at MIT. Since coming to Olin over 15 years ago, they have developed and taught a number of bioengineering and design courses, have been active in efforts at Olin and in the larger engineering education community to advance equity and inclusion efforts, and have been a part of academic life leadership. As dean of the college, they are focused on supporting students across the many aspects of their Olin experiences. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
