Olin College Faculty Profile: Whitney Lohmeyer Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Whitney Lohmeyer News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Whitney Q. Lohmeyer, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Engineering MH 333 781-292-2557 wlohmeyer@olin.edu whitneylohmeyer/ EducationPh.D., Aeronautics and Astronautics, MIT M.S., Aeronautics and Astronautics, MIT B.S., Aerospace Engineering, North Carolina State UniversitySelect Courses TaughtSatellite Systems Analog and Digital CommunicationsPrinciples of Wireless CommunicationsQuantitative Engineering Analysis Areas Of InterestSatellite Communications Wireless Communications Satellite Systems International Spectrum Policy Principles of Wireless Communications Biography Whitney Lohmeyer is an Assistant Professor of Engineering at Olin College and a Research Affiliate at MIT in Aeronautics and Astronautics. She leads the Olin Satellite + Spectrum Technology & Policy (OSSTP) Group, and manages and contributes to the field of satellite communications systems. She also works closely with industry to advise on end-to-end system design, antenna systems, RF power amplification, radiation tolerance and spectrum strategy. Whitney is passionate about enabling affordable Internet access in order to generate economic growth and improve healthcare and education. Whitney was the first engineer hired at OneWeb, a company launching hundreds of low earth orbit communications satellites to provide global broadband and bridge the digital divide. While at OneWeb, she held a variety of roles both technical and policy-focused. As a Systems Engineer, she designed the RF Link Budget, and worked on the end-to-end communications system design, focusing on the LTE waveform and the user terminal antenna. In addition, she actively contributed to policy reform at the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and United Nations (UN) International Telecommunications Union (ITU), and represented OneWeb on the U.S. Delegation to the 2015 World Radio Conference, the culmination of a three-year regulatory review cycle. Prior to joining the OneWeb team, she worked as a hardware engineer at Google, and spent time in technical roles at Inmarsat and NASA. Whitney received her Ph.D. in Aeronautics and Astronautics from MIT in 2015, and her M.S. in Aeronautics and Astronautics from MIT in 2013, both funded by a National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship. She earned her B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from NC State University in 2011, as the only female in her class of approximately ninety students, and now currently serves on the board of North Carolina State Universitys Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) Department. She has been invited to speak at a variety of events including NC States 2018 MAE Commencement Ceremony, the UN Womens Gender Equality and Mainstreaming (GEM) The Internet of Women: Challenge or Opportunity? and the UNs and ITUs Womens Leadership Workshop on Empowering Women in Radiocommunications Negotiations. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
