Linda Vanasupa | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Linda Vanasupa News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Linda Vanasupa, Ph.D. Professor of Materials Engineering 805-550-9396 linda.vanasupa@olin.edu linda-vanasupa-07774a4/ EducationPh.D. and M.S., Materials Science and Engineering, Stanford B.S., Metallurgical Engineering, Michigan Technological UniversitySelect Courses TaughtRenewable EnergyIntroduction to Sensors, Instrumentation, and MeasurementFoundations of Materials SciencePaper Panacea: Parts I & Pandemic!Areas Of InterestSustainability, Transformational Learning, Paper Detection Technologies Biography Linda Vanasupa joined Olins faculty after 27 years as a professor of materials engineering at the California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo, California. The highlights and minutiae of that journey can be found in her vita. In coming to Olin, they have continued their efforts to learn engineering together in a way that is life-giving. This has taken the form of exploring the conditions for thriving through translating neuroscience findings. While this might sound a little mysterious, it is nothing more than managing ones state of being and working with others toward shared aspirations. As a transgender lesbian person, she/they have not yet figured out how to properly use pronouns. Yet, they realize that their social identity has helped them to develop a greater empathy for people experiencing marginalization in engineering. She strives to create engineering learning environments where all are dignified and have the conditions for thriving for an engineering profession that is similarultimately, for an engineered world that is similar. Select Publications Vanasupa, Linda and Gilda Barabino. (2021). An Engineering Education of Holism: Einsteins Imperative, in Insights Into Global Engineering Education After the Birth of Industry 5.0, InterTechOpen, Online First. July 28, 2021.Vanasupa, L. (2020), From 2020 vision: Engineering education that honors the whole. J. Eng. Educ., 109: 353-357. https://doi.org/10.1002/jee.20327Vanasupa, Linda, Lizabeth Schlemer, and Yevgeniya V. Zastavker. (2020). An Emancipatory Teaching Practice in a Technical Course: A Layered Account of Designing Circuits Laboratory Instructions for a Diversity of Learners Proceedings of the 2020 American Society for Engineering Education Conference. Paper#29398. Vanasupa, Linda, Nicola Sochacka, and Ruth Streveler, "Dynamic interactions of neurological states: Reflections on implications for learning engineering." Murmurations 1, no. 1 (2018):8-19. https://doi.org/10.31946/meee.v1i1.24 Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
