Olin College Faculty Profile: Steve Matsumoto Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Steve Matsumoto News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Steve Matsumoto, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Engineering MH 332 781-292-2559 smatsumoto@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University M.S., Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University B.S., Joint Major in Computer Science and Mathematics, Harvey Mudd CollegeSelect Courses TaughtModeling and Simulation of the Physical WorldAreas Of InterestCybersecurity, Cryptocurrency, Education Biography Stephanos (Steve) Matsumoto is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the Olin College of Engineering. His research interests are broadly in security and privacy. Steve is especially interested in how we can make practical changes that improve the security of widely-used technology. He has several projects that aim to improve the security of the Web public-key infrastructure (PKI) by building on existing technology, and he is currently studying and improving the economic incentives underlying cryptocurrency. He is also interested in computer science education, particularly in the field of security, and focuses on designing courses that build students' (1) competence in technical fields, (2) confidence to tackle important and interesting problems, and (3) context in non-STEM fields. Before coming to Olin, Steve was a postdoctoral researcher in the Cybercrime group in the Institute for Software Research at Carnegie Mellon University, supervised by Nicolas Christin. He earned his PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering in the Secure Foundations group at Carnegie Mellon University, advised by Bryan Parno. He completed his MS at Carnegie Mellon University and his BS in Computer Science and Mathematics at Harvey Mudd College. He also spent some time at ETH Zurich in Switzerland as a visiting PhD student. Steve enjoys travel, learning languages, and tabletop games. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
