Olins Time to Shine | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Olins Time to Shine Media Contacts For press inquiries and other news-related questions please click here. Read More Olin in the news For recent media coverage please click here. Read More Media Contacts For press inquiries and other news-related questions please click here. Read More Olin in the news For recent media coverage please click here. Read More Share This Pageemailfacebooklinkedintwittergoogle+pinterest Return To News Olins Time to Shine 28 October, Thursday Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. A solar energy project thats been in the works for several years continues to march forward, bringing Olin ever closer to producing more renewable energy. In summer 2019, Energy and Sustainability Interns Ana Krishnan 20 and George Tighe 22 were reviewing Olins Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System (STARS) report, a widely used, self-reporting framework to measure sustainability performance in higher education. They noticed that the energy sectionone of many assessment areas ranging from academics to transportationhad room for improvement. Jeremy Goodman agreed. In 2019, as the newly appointed Vice President for Administrative Services and Innovation, Goodman asked Claire Rodgers, associate energy engineer on the Facilities team, to investigate carbon reduction options for the campus, including introducing solar power. Under the guidance of Rodgers, Krishnan and Tighe embarked on a project to review ways to lower Olins carbon emissions. They came up with 11 different criteria that were important to viewing the project holisticallycost, maintenance, educational valueand researched different energy options, such as solar, geothermal, wind, and fuel cells, said Rodgers. They presented their findings to Jeremy, which was a pretty cool experience for them. It was very uplifting to present the results of our study and our recommendation for the solar carport project to Jeremy, said Tighe. Many Oliners successfully take agency through such sustainability initiatives, and it'll be a major step forward for Olin to produce its own renewable energy. The students recommended solar energy as the way to move forward. Interestingly, this idea had been on Olins radar for a while, but due to a multitude of factors it hadnt moved forward yet. Now, thanks to new incentive programs, student initiative, and support from the Sustainability Steering Committeechaired by Rodgersthe time was ripe to take another serious look at solar on campus. After some preliminary work, the Committee hired Sage Energy Consulting out of California in early 2020 to provide their expertise and complete a feasibility study. A year later, Goodman presented the results to the Finance & Facilities Committee of the Board of Trustees, highlighting not only Sages confirmation that solar energy was the right choice for Olin, but also underscoring why sustainability is so important to the college and its community. Over the intervening years, a lot had happened in the sustainability space at Olin, said Rodgers. Olin added the E:Sustainability concentration, created the Eco-Reps program, formed a partnership with Greentown Labs, and moreall things that link to our mission and vision to better the world. We have the perfect conditions to turn commitment to action and to create meaningful learning experiences for Olin students while we do it. It has taken us a lot of effort to get to this point and it is immensely gratifying to see this project moving forward, said Goodman. The presentation was a success, and the Board approved the solar project to move to the request for proposal (RFP) phase with the understanding that the project will move forward to construction pending any unforeseen issues. To facilitate, Goodman and Rodgers formed a dedicated Solar Team with representatives from across campus to make sure the project is integrated into the entire Olin experience. Individuals from marketing, post-graduate planning, faculty, and more are brainstorming to capture as many impactful ideas into the RFP as possible. Right now, were collecting ideas to share with Sage to see if we can find an organization who wants to be more than a transactional partner and instead involve students in deeper partnerships, said Rodgers. This is larger than just putting solar panels on campusthis is another way in which Olin is a living lab for learning and growth." While the exact details and timing of the solar project will be forthcoming once a contractor is selected, the RFP will stipulate that much of the work be focused on spacious Parking Lot A, which is relatively south-facingSages suggestion based on their feasibility work. The RFP will also ask companies to put forth their own creative ideas to ensure Olin finds a partner with an exciting vision for this new chapter in sustainability on campus. Academic Calendars 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 Want to post an event? Please complete this FORM to have your group activity added to the calendar. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
