Faculty Profile for Diana Dabby, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Diana Dabby News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Diana Dabby, Ph.D. Professor of Electrical Engineering and MusicMusic Program Director Milas Hall 269 781-292-2551 diana.dabby@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, MIT M.F.A., Music, Mills College A.B., Music, Vassar College Select Courses TaughtOlin Conductorless OrchestraSignals & SystemsWired EnsembleDigital Signal Processing (DSP)Singular Voices, Dual LivesResearchMusical Variation, Chaos Science, Signal Processing, and Acoustics Composition, Orchestration, and Performance Topics at the Interface of Science and the Arts Music and Letters Biography Diana Dabby has taught at MIT, Tufts University, and Juilliard, and holds degrees in music and electrical engineering from Vassar, Mills, C.C.N.Y., and MIT. She is Music Program Director and Electrical Engineering faculty at Olin where she teaches orchestration, composition, performance and signal processing, as well as interdisciplinary courses connecting the arts and sciences. In her doctoral research at MIT, Dabby combined music and engineering by devising a chaotic mapping for musical variation. Awarded four patents, her work with chaotic systems and musical variation has been featured on NPR member station WBUR (2004), NPRs Weekend Edition (2007), in Science (2008) and the Boston Globe (2013), as well as at a number of invited concert/lectures. A new web application, CantoVario, brings together the fields of music, chaos science, signal processing, and acoustics to create song variations.Currently under development with the MIT Venture Mentoring Service (VMS) program, this workwas selected for MITs VMS Demo Day 2014, Entrepreneurial Edge Showcase 2017, and the MIT Innovation Corps (2018), a program sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF). In March 2019, CantoVario was selected for the National Teams Innovation Corps (I-Corps) sponsored by NSF and awarded a 50K grant for customer discovery.In June 2020, NSF awarded her a Partnerships for Innovation-Technology Transfer grant for 250K, funding research and development as CantoVario moves from prototype to product. Reflecting her professional record as a concert pianist and composer, Diana Dabby's work has been heard at Bostons Jordan Hall, Symphony Hall, Tanglewood, in New York at Carnegie-Weill Recital Hall and Merkin Concert Hall, as well as on both coasts and abroad. Past compositions includeWho was Wissam Eid? (2017),Fuente y Variacin(2013),Tre Studi di Colore(2012),andSeptember Quartet(2011)which received its world premiere on the tenth anniversary of 9/11. The world premire of Parallel VoicesDistant Mirrors (2018) for bass/alto flutes, voice, piano and soundtrack featured a new listening experience for the audience: seat location determined the variation path heard through the soundtrack. The 5-movement work explores parallel universes in Iraq and the United States. As an orchestrator, she has created over 100 arrangements of symphonic works for theOlin Conductorless Orchestra, ranging from 6 to 22 players (2002 present). In January 2017, a book chapter (The Engineers Orchestraa conductorless orchestra for our time) was published by Springer Nature in Creative Ways of Knowing in Engineering(Baraiktarova and Eodice, eds.).In December 2019, her paper The Engineers Orchestra: a Conductorless Orchestra for Developing 21stCentury Professional Skills, written for the 2019 ASEE Zone 1 International Conference in Niagara Falls, NY, was selected as the ASEE Zone 1 Best Paper of 2019. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
