Faculty Profile for Sarah S. Adams, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Sarah S. Adams News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Sarah Spence Adams, Ph.D. Professor of Mathematics and Electrical & Computer Engineering 781-292-2536 sarah.adams@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Mathematics, Cornell University M.S., Mathematics, Cornell University B.S., Mathematics, University of Richmond Select Courses TaughtDiscrete MathematicsResearchAlgebraic Coding Theory Mathematical Structures Underlying Communications Systems Graph TheoryAwardsNSA Young Investigator's Award Project NExT Fellow Biography Dr. Adams maintains an active research program partly focused on mathematical structures used to increase the reliability and efficiency of wireless communications and partly focused on graphs used to model communications and social networks. She earned her Ph.D. and M.S. in mathematics at Cornell University, where she was also a member of the Wireless Intelligent Systems Laboratory in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. She holds a B.S. (summa cum laude) in mathematics from the University of Richmond. Dr. Adams has conducted research at the Institute for Defense Analyses, Center for Communications Research and the National Security Agency (NSA). Her short book on algebraic coding theory is used to introduce applications to abstract algebra classes, and her short book on discrete-time dynamical systems is used to teach linear algebra through the application of population models. She is an ExxonMobil Fellow in the Mathematical Association of America's (MAA) Project NExT and serves on MAA national committees involving undergraduate programs/research. In recent years, she received an NSA Young Investigator's Award to support her research in space-time coding, a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to develop a multi-faceted coding theory and cryptology course, and an NSF grant to support her Long-term Undergraduate Research Experience (LURE) model for engaging early undergraduates in meaningful research experiences. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
