Faculty Profile for Richard K. Miller, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Richard K. Miller News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Richard K. Miller, Ph.D. Professor of Mechanical Engineering and President Emeritus On Leave richard.miller@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Applied Mechanics, California Institute of Technology M.S., Mechanical Engineering, MIT B.S., Aerospace Engineering, University of California, Davis Select Courses TaughtIssues in Leadership and EthicsMechanics of Solids and StructuresResearchApplied Mechanics Earthquake Engineering Design of Deployable Spacecraft Awards2017 Brock International Prize in Education Laureate 2014 Fellow, National Academy of Inventors 2013 NAE Bernard M. Gordon Prize 2012 Member, National Academy of Engineering 2011 ASEE Donald E. Marlowe Award Biography Richard K. Millerwas appointed President and first employee of Olin College of Engineering in 1999 where he served as the college's founding president until June 2020. Beginning September 2020 he will join MIT as theJerome C. Hunsaker Visiting Professor of Aerospace Systems. Prior to joining Olin, he served as Dean of Engineering at the University of Iowa, Associate Dean of Engineering at USC in Los Angeles, and assistant professor of engineering at UCSB in Santa Barbara.With a background in applied mechanics and current interests in innovation in higher education, Miller is the author of more than 100 reviewed journal articles and other technical publications. He received the2017 Brock International Prize in Educationfor his many contributions to the reinvention of engineering education in the 21st century. Together with two Olin colleagues, he received the 2013 Bernard M. Gordon Prize from the U.S. National Academy of Engineering (NAE) for Innovation in Engineering and Technology Education. Recently elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, he is a member of both the NAE and the National Academy of Inventors. In 2011, he received the Marlowe Award for creative and distinguished administrative leadership from the American Society for Engineering Education. Miller served as Chair of the National Academies Board on Higher Education and Workforce (BHEW), and Chair of the Engineering Advisory Committee of the U.S. National Science Foundation. He has also served on advisory boards and committees for Harvard University, Stanford University, the NAE, NAS, and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in addition to others. Furthermore, he has served as a consultant to the World Bank in the establishment of new universities in developing countries. A frequent speaker on engineering education, he received the 2002 Distinguished Engineering Alumnus Award from the University of California at Davis, where he earned his B.S. He earned his M.S. from MIT and Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology, where he received the 2014 Caltech Distinguished Alumni Award. Listen to President Miller's podcast episodes onThe Future of Higher Educationonthe weband listen onApple Podcasts here. Select Publications Miller, R.K., From the Ground Up Rethinking Engineering Education in the 21st Century, (2010) Proc. of the 2010 Symposium on Engineering and Liberal Education, Union College, NY, June 3-4, 1-20.Miller, R.K., Some Challenges of Creating an Entirely New Academic Institution, (2011) Chapter 7 in Organizational Learning Contracts, by Paul Goodman, Oxford University Press, 121-138.Miller, R.K., Olin College and the Future of Engineering, (2010), in Writing and Reading Across the Curriculum, 11th Edition, by Laurence Behrens and Leonard Rosen, Pearson Longman, New York. Curriculum VitaePersonal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
