Scott Hersey | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Scott Hersey News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Scott Hersey, Ph.D. Director of SCOPEAssociate Professor of Chemical and Environmental Engineering Scott.Hersey@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Environmental Science and Engineering, California Institute of Technology M.S., Environmental Science and Engineering, California Institute of Technology B.S., Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Rice University B.A., Civil and Environmental Engineering, Rice University Biography Dr. Hersey joined Olin in 2015 from South Africa, where he worked with scientists, engineers, government ministers, NGOs, and local communities to develop effective and health-driven pollution offset programs aimed at improving air quality in townships and informal settlements. He concurrently co-founded and managed a social enterprise business called Jozis Nut Butters, and subsequently transferred business ownership to a community-owned trust. Prior to his work in South Africa, Dr. Hersey served as Adjunct Assistant Professor in both Engineering and Chemistry at Harvey Mudd College, where he developed a passion for effective and innovative undergraduate education. He holds a B.S. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and B.A. in Civil and Environmental Engineering from Rice University, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Environmental Science and Engineering from the California Institute of Technology. His Ph.D. dissertation focused on the chemical composition of aerosol particles and their impact on urban air quality, cloud microphysics, and climate. At Olin College, Dr. Hersey advises student teams in both capstone programs (SCOPE and Affordable Design and Entrepreneurship), in addition to teaching User Oriented Collaborative Design (UOCD) and developing project-based courses in Environmental Analysis and Engineering. His research interests unite community-driven design with scientific research to build local capacity for improving air quality. Through strong community partnerships, robust technical capabilities, and a mission based on asset-based community development, Dr. Herseys Air Partners Group tackles projects including low-cost sensor development and validation (chemistry, electrical and computer engineering), democratizing air quality data for at-risk residents (software development, data science), improving access to in-home air quality interventions (environmental engineering, social entrepreneurship), and supporting the legislative process to safeguard air health in near-airport. Learn more about Air Partners athttps://www.airpartners.org/our-work. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
