Faculty Profile for Bradley A. Minch, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Bradley A. Minch News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Bradley A. Minch, Ph.D. Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Milas Hall 354 781-292-2566 bradley.minch@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Computation and Neural Systems program, Calfornia Institute of Technology, 1997 B.S., Electrical Engineering, Cornell University, 1991 Select Courses TaughtElecanismsIntroduction to Microelectonic CircuitsPrinciples of EngineeringResearchAnalog and mixed-signal design Biography Prior to joining the Olin College faculty, Dr. Minch was an Assistant Professor at Cornell University in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, where he was the recipient of three teaching awards and one freshman advising award. In 2000, he received an Early CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation. The award recognizes the early career-development activities of teacher-scholars who are most likely to become the academic leaders of the 21st century, and is very prestigious. Dr. Minch's research interests are in the areas of analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit design. Translinear circuits, log-domain filters, floating-gate circuits, and neuromorphic circuits are among the topics covered in his published journal papers and conference presentations. Dr. Minch received his Ph.D. in 1997 from the Computation and Neural Systems program at the California Institute of Technology. In 1991, he received his B.S. in electrical engineering from Cornell University. His outside interests include origami, stained glass and electronics. He is an analog circuit designer who believes that there are still plenty of little circuits waiting to be discovered and that a circuit can be an end in itself and a thing of beauty. He is also the father of two beautiful boys, Jadyn and Allen, who both have bright red hair and a seemingly unfathomable amount of energy. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
