Faculty Profile for Jessica Townsend, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Jessica Townsend News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Jessica Townsend, Ph.D. Professor of Engineering Milas Hall 259 781-292-2567 jessica.townsend@olin.edu @thermoprof EducationPh.D., Aeronautics and Astronautics, MIT M.S., Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineering, University of California, Davis B.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Massachusetts, Amherst Select Courses TaughtModeling and Simulation of the Physical WorldThermodynamicsTransport PhenomenaSCOPEAreas Of InterestCurriculum Innovation Engineering Education Thermal Fluids Propulsion Biography Dr. Jessica Townsend is a Professor of Mechanical Engineering, previously serving as the Interim Academic Vice President for External Engagement at Olin College. Since joining the Olin College faculty in 2004, Dr. Townsend has worked as a facilitator and consultant with universities and professional organizations looking to improve engineering student engagement. She currently oversees institutional-level strategy for Olins external educational change mission and has contributed to the development of innovative pedagogies, courses, and curricula at Olin College. Her technical area of interest is experimental thermal-fluids and she worked for many years on the development and characterization of nanofluids (colloidal suspensions of nanoparticles), mainly for thermal management applications. Dr. Townsend has industry experience in both air-breathing propulsion, as a gas turbine performance engineer at Hamilton Sundstrand Power Systems, and in rocket propulsion, as a visiting engineer at Blue Origin, a commercial spaceflight company based in Seattle, WA. Select Publications Townsend, J., Christianson, R., Nanofluid Properties and their Effects on Convective Heat Transfer of Electronics Cooling Systems, Journal of Thermal Science and Engineering Applications, 1, p. 031006, 2010.Buongiorno, J., Venerus, D., Prabhat, N., McKrell, T., Tolmachev, Y.V., Townsend, J., Christianson, R., and others, A Benchmark Study on the Thermal Conductivity of Nanofluids, Journal of Applied Physics, 106, 094312, 2009.Townsend, J., Dillon, A., Sequiera, S., Student-Centered Learning and Metacognitive Strategies in Engineering Thermal-Fluid Courses, Proceedings of the AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting 2008, January 6 9, 2008, Reno, Nevada. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
