C. Jason Woodard | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home C. Jason Woodard News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty C. Jason Woodard, Ph.D. Dean of External Programs and PartnershipsAssociate Professor of Engineering and Entrepreneurship 781-292-2521 jason.woodard@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Harvard University, 2006 A.B., Princeton University, 1997 Select Courses TaughtModeling & SimulationProducts & MarketsSCOPEResearchTechnology and industry evolution Economics of platform ecosystems Software architecture and strategy AwardsInnovative Teacher Award, Singapore Management University, 2009 George S. Dively Award, Harvard Business School, 2003 Biography Dr. C. Jason Woodard joined Olin from the School of Information Systems at Singapore Management University, where he served as an assistant professor from 2006 to 2015. His research explores the evolution of complex product and system designs, with a focus on the relationship between their architecture and the competitive strategy of their designers. He is especially (but not exclusively) interested in software-based systems, where decisions about interfaces, protocols and standards can turn out to have substantial economic and social consequences. Using a variety of methods including computational simulation and qualitative field studies, he aspires to bridge the gap between engineering design and economic modeling to address situations where the strategic interests of multiple designers are intertwined. Prior to his academic career, Dr. Woodard worked for IBM as a technical evangelist for the companys efforts related to Java, XML and Linux. His interest in these areas was kindled as an undergraduate at Princeton University, where he created an independent concentration in Information Technology and Society after soundly failing at physics and philosophy. At Harvard, he was one of the first and last students to receive a Ph.D. in Information, Technology and Management from a program jointly offered by Harvard Business School and the Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
