Jeff Dusek | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Jeff Dusek News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Jeff Dusek, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering MH 355 781-292-2586 jeff.dusek@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Mechanical and Ocean Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology M.S., Ocean Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology B.S., Ocean Engineering, Florida Atlantic UniversitySelect Courses TaughtIntroduction to Sensors, Instrumentation and MeasurementAreas Of InterestAccessibility and Adaptive Technology, Experimental Hydrodynamics, Soft Sensors, Underwater Robots, Swarm Robotics, Biography Dr. Dusek joined Olin in 2017 from Harvard where he served as a postdoctoral fellow in the Self-Organizing Systems Research Group at Harvards John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences under faculty supervisor Professor Radhika Nagpal developing miniature underwater vehicles for marine swarm applications. Prior to joining Harvard, he held several teaching and research roles at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technologys Center for Environmental Sensing and Modeling (CENSAM). These included conducting research on the application of distributed flow sensing principles inspired by the fish lateral line sensory organ to unmanned marine vehicles, and developing low-cost and flexible pressure sensor arrays. His research and teaching interests encompass broad themes in marine robotics and hydrodynamic sensing, and accessibilityand adaptive technology. In his robotics and sensing work, Dr. Dusek draws lessons and inspiration from biological systems and a deep love of the ocean. He is passionate about increasing the accessibility and diversity of engineering education through the application of universal design principles to both curriculum and technology development. Dr. Dusek worked in MITs Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering where he served as a Laboratory Assistant and later co-taught Principles and Practices of Assistive Technology. He also served as a Teaching Assistant in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at MIT. Dr. Dusek received his Ph.D. from MIT in Mechanical and Ocean Engineering, an M.S. in Ocean Engineering from MIT and a B.S. from Florida Atlantic University in Ocean Engineering as well. He has received several awards including: the Miller Prize for first place at the Oceans Conference Taiwan Student Poster Competition (2014), American Bureau of Shipping Scholarship at MIT (2009), and the Intercollegiate Sailing Association All-Academic Sailing Team-First Team (2008). Dr. Dusek holds one patent, has extensive volunteer experience, and has served as a sailing race team coach and umpire. He developed his love of all things aquatic during his youth while growing up outside of Cleveland, Ohio on the shores of Lake Erie. Select Publications F. Berlinger, J. Dusek, M. Gauci, and R. Nagpal. Robust Maneueverability of a Miniature, Low-Cost Underwater Robot using Multiple Fin Actuation, IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2017, Accepted.J. E. Dusek, J. H. Lang, and M. S. Triantafyllou. Piezoresistive Foam Sensor Arrays for Marine Applications, Sensors and Actuators A: Physical, Volume 248, 2016, Pages 173-183, ISSN 0924-4247, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2016.07.025.J. Dusek, A. G. P. Kottapalli, M. E. Woo, M. Asadnia, J. Miao, J. H. Lang, and M. S. Triantafyllou, Development and testing of bio-inspired microelectromechanical pressure sensor arrays for increased situational awareness for marine vehicles, Smart Materials and Structures, 22:014002-014015, 2013. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
