Erhardt Graeff | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Erhardt Graeff News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Erhardt Graeff, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Social and Computer Science MH 363 egraeff@olin.edu @erhardt erhardt EducationPh.D., Media Arts and Sciences, MIT S.M., Media Arts and Sciences, MIT M.Phil., Sociology, University of Cambridge B.S., International Studies, RIT B.S., Information Technology, RITSelect Courses TaughtDemocracy and MediaAffordable Design and EntrepreneurshipModeling and Simulation of the Physical WorldAreas Of InterestPublic Interest Technology Civic Technology Civic Education Mass Incarceration Ethics in Engineering and Design Biography Erhardt Graeffis an educator, social scientist, and public interest technologist. He works on the design and use of technology for civic engagement, civic learning, and empowerment, and the ethical responsibility of technologists as stewards of democracy. His current research is on articulating the civic responsibilities of engineers and developing new forms of civic education within undergraduate engineering. His current pedagogy is organized around creating spaces for student-owned and -led public interest technology projects. He regularly consults with foundations, companies, and nonprofits on civic learning, civic engagement research, and civic technology design. Erhardt is an Assistant Professor of Social and Computer Science at Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering and a faculty associate at the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics at Harvard University. Erhardt serves as Olins designee to the Public Interest Technology University Network. Select Publications Graeff, E. 2020. 'The Responsibility to Not Design and the Need for Citizen Professionalism.' Computing Professionals for Social Responsibility: The Past, Present and Future Values of Participatory Design (PDC2020 Workshop). https://pdc2020cpsr.pubpub.org/pub/vizamy14 Graeff, E. 2019. 'Monitorial Citizenship.' In Hobbs, R & Mihailidis P, eds., The International Encyclopedia of Media Literacy. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118978238.ieml0169 Graeff, E. 2019. 'Everyone Should Be Involved in Designing, Implementing, and Evaluating Digital Surveillance Technology.' In Levinson, M & Fay, J, eds., Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press.Graeff, E. 2019. 'How Silicon Valley Can Support Civic Empowerment.' Scholars Strategy Network. https://scholars.org/contribution/how-silicon-valley-can-support-citizen-empowermentGraeff, E. 2016. 'Youth Digital Activism.' World Youth Report 2015Youth Civic Engagement. United Nations: New York, NY. https://www.un.org/development/desa/youth/world-youth-report/2015-2.htmlGraeff, E, Stempeck, M, & Zuckerman, E. 2014. 'The Battle for "Trayvon Martin": Mapping a Media Controversy Online and Off-line.' First Monday, 19, no. 2. https://journals.uic.edu/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/4947 Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
