Faculty Profile for Jonathan M. Adler, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Jonathan M. Adler News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Jonathan M. Adler, Ph.D. Professor of Psychology Milas Hall 368 781-292-2583 jadler@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Clinical and Personality Psychology, Northwestern University M.S., Clinical Psychology, Northwestern University B.A., Psychology, Bates College Select Courses TaughtIdentity from the Mind and the BrainFoundations of PsychologyNarrative PsychologyResearchThe interface between adult development and clinical psychologyAwardsRising Star in Personality Psychology Award Laura N. Rice Memorial Award Biography Dr. Adlers research focuses on the interface between adult development and clinical psychology. Broadly conceived, his research interests revolve around the reciprocal relationships between self and identity processes and psychological functioning. He is especially interested in the most productive ways people make sense of the difficult things that happen to them and how that personal meaning facilitates changes in identity. In other words, he studies the ways in which the process of making sense of negative experiences influences important life outcomes, including mental health, personality maturity, and the process and outcome of psychotherapy treatment. He is currently working on several research projects that all focus on related issues of identity development and mental health. In addition to his research, Dr. Adler is a practicing psychotherapist, having worked as a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Stone Center Counseling Service at Wellesley College and completed his APA-Approved Pre-Doctoral Internship at the Jesse Brown Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Chicago. At Olin he works to make the best of psychological science relevant and exciting for students, both professionally and personally. Select Publications Adler, J.M. (2012). Living into the story: Agency and coherence in a longitudinal study of narrative identity development and mental health over the course of psychotherapy. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 102(2), 367-389.Adler, J.M., Chin, E.D., Kolisetty, A.P., Oltmanns, T.F. (2012). The distinguishing characteristics of narrative identity in adults with features of Borderline Personality Disorder: An empirical investigation. Journal of Personality Disorders, 26, 498-512.Adler, J.M. & Poulin, M. (2009). The political is personal: Narrating 9/11 and psychological well-being. Journal of Personality, 74(4), 903-932. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
