Emily W. Tow | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Emily W. Tow News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Emily W. Tow, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering MH 334 781.292.2574 etow@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Mechanical Engineering, MIT, 2017 S.M., Mechanical Engineering, MIT, 2014 S.B., Mechanical Engineering, MIT, 2012Select Courses TaughtQuantitative Engineering Analysis I & IITransport PhenomenaResearchWater reuse and desalination Water-energy-food nexus Heat transfer AwardsITRI-Rosenfeld Postdoctoral Fellowship NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Winner of U.S. Bureau of Reclamation's "More Water, Less Concentrate" Challenge Meredith Kamm Memorial Award for Excellence in a Woman Graduate Student Biography Emily Tow is a mechanical engineer and visual artist. Her engineering research addresses sustainability through the study of transport phenomena at the waterenergyfood nexus. Currently, Emilys research focuses on understanding membrane fouling and improving energy efficiency in water reuse and desalination. She has more than 15 peer-reviewed publications and patents in the fields of heat transfer and water treatment. Emily is also a lighthearted visual artist who works with the experience and outcomes of repetition using various media, including soft sculpture, ceramics, drawing, and mural painting. Prior to joining the Olin faculty in 2019, Emily received her PhD in Mechanical Engineering from MIT and was an ITRI-Rosenfeld Postdoctoral Fellow at Lawrence Berkeley Lab. Select Publications E. W. Tow and J. H. Lienhard, Unpacking compaction: Effect of hydraulic pressure on alginate fouling, Journal of Membrane Science, 544: 221-233, 2017. E. W. Tow, M. M. Rencken, and J. H. Lienhard, In situ visualization of organic fouling and cleaning mechanisms in reverse osmosis and forward osmosis, Desalination, 399: 138-147, 2016. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
