Faculty Profile for Paul Ruvolo | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Paul Ruvolo News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Paul Ruvolo, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science - On Leave Fall 2021 Campus Center 214 On Leave 781-292-2568 paul.ruvolo@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Computer Science and Engineering, University of California San Diego M.S., Computer Science and Engineering, University of California San Diego B.S., Computer Science, Harvey Mudd College Select Courses TaughtModeling and Simulation of the Physical WorldResearchMachine Learning Robotics Computer Vision AwardsNSF IGERT Fellowship for studying "Learning and Vision in Humans and Machines" Biography Dr. Ruvolo's goal is to develop machines capable of emulating the incredible perceptual and motor abilities of humans. Historically, machines, e.g. software systems or robots, have had to be meticulously preprogrammed to solve a given sensorimotor task. While this approach has been successful for sufficiently constrained tasks, this approach has proven to be brittle when presented with the unconstrained complexity inherent in daily life. In contrast, Dr. Ruvolo's approach is to create systems capable of learning and adapting to novel situations. This learning takes two forms: (1) directly imitating human sensory and motor behavior and (2) autonomously adapting through experience. In order to create machines capable of learning through both imitation and experience, he leverages mathematical tools from fields such as Bayesian statistics, numerical optimization, and linear algebra. Using this approach he has tackled problems in computer vision (making software that can make sense of the visual world), computer audition (making software that can make sense of the auditory world), and optimal control (making software capable of optimally solving sequential decision-making tasks). His research focus at Olin is using this learning approach to create assistive technologies for people with sensory and motor impairments. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
