Faculty Profile for Mark Somerville, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Mark Somerville News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Mark Somerville, Ph.D. ProvostProfessor of Electrical Engineering and Physics Campus Center 261 781-292-2516 mark.somerville@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Electrical Engineering, MIT M.S., Electrical Engineering, MIT B.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Texas, Austin Select Courses TaughtModeling and Simulation of the Physical WorldUser Oriented Collaborative DesignMechanicsResearchHigh Electron Mobility Transistors Artificial Muscles Biography Dr. Mark Somerville joined Olin College from Vassar College, where he had been an Assistant Professor of Physics since 1998. He holds M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from MIT, as well as an M.A. (first class honors) in physics from Oxford University. He did his undergraduate work at the University of Texas at Austin, where he earned a bachelor of science (highest honors) in electrical engineering as well as a bachelor of arts (special honors) in liberal arts (English concentration). His academic honors include the Joint Services Electronics Program Doctoral and Post Doctoral Fellowship, the Office of Naval Research Graduate Fellowship, and the Rhodes Scholarship. Dr. Somerville's technical research focuses on the physics of semiconductor devices, with particular emphasis development of novel measurement techniques to provide insight into failure mechanisms in devices ranging from III-V high electron mobility transistors to strained silicon-on-insulator transistors to germanium-based LED's. Dr. Somerville has also collaborated extensively with other institutions, including the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, TU-Delft, and others, to spread change in engineering education, particularly through to application of collaborative design techniques to curriculum revision processes. He has also worked closely with other Olin faculty members to develop the Olin Collaboratory's Summer Institute, which draws engineering educators from around the world. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
