Faculty Profile for Jonathan Stolk, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Jonathan Stolk News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Jonathan Stolk, Ph.D. Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Education Academic Center 327 781-292-2573 stolk@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Materials Science and Engineering, University of Texas, Austin M.S., Materials Science and Engineering, University of Texas, Austin B.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Texas, Arlington Select Courses TaughtMaterials Creation, Consumption, and ImpactMetals, Mining, and the EnvironmentIntroduction to SustainabilityEducational Design StudioResearchLearner Motivation, Basic Needs Satisfaction, and Self-Determination Self-Directed Learning Gender and Engineering Learner Beliefs and Identities Collaborative Educational Change Integrated Course DesignAwardsBest Paper Award, ASEE Educational Research and Methods (ERM) Diversity Paper Award, ASEE ERM Marcus A. Grossman Young Authors Award, ASM International Biography Dr. Jonathan Stolk joined Olin College in 2001 from Bucknell University, where he served as a Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering. He arrived at Olin before the College had students, a campus, or a curriculum and experienced all the joys and struggles of imagining and creating an unconventional engineering program and learning culture from scratch. Through these early experiences, Dr. Stolk developed a passion for creative course design, and a deep interest in understanding the effects of innovative curricular and pedagogical approaches on students engagement and learning. Stolk aspires to design and facilitate transformative learning experiences, by collaborating with an amazing group of colleagues to imagine and prototype project-based and inter-/trans-disciplinary courses that invite students to take control of their learning, grapple with complex systems, engage with each other and the world in new ways, and emerge as confident, agile, self-directed learners. As a researcher, Stolk strives to understand how individuals develop and express motivations in the classroom; how students become self-directed learners; how faculty learning beliefs influence course design and instructional approaches; and how educators initiate, negotiate, and sustain change processes. Stolk consults and collaborates with institutions around the world to translate educational research to classroom practice, equip educators with curricular design tools and conceptual frameworks, and assist faculty in testing educational prototypes and driving educational change. Stolk has facilitated over 80 faculty development workshops on a wide range of topics, including integrated/interdisciplinary course design, active and project-based learning, understanding and supporting intrinsic motivation, and implementation of innovative courses and curricula. Select Publications Stolk, J. D., Gross, M. D., & Zastavker, Y. V. (in press). Motivation, Pedagogy, and Gender: Examining the Multifaceted and Dynamic Situational Responses of Women and Men in College STEM Courses, International Journal of STEM Education.Stolk, J. D., Zastavker, Y. V., & Gross, M. D. (2018). Gender, motivation, and pedagogy in the STEM classroom: a quantitative characterization. 2018 ASEE Annual Conference & Exposition, Salt Lake City, Utah.Stolk, J., Hubbard, K., & etinkaya, S. (2017). Critical Mass or Critical Culture? Gendered Perceptions of Women and Men in an Engineering School, IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference (FIE), Indianapolis, IN.Stolk, J., & Harari, J. (2014). Student motivations as predictors of high-level cognitions in project-based classrooms. Active Learning in Higher Education, 15(3), 231-247.Stolk, J. D., & Martello, R. (2015). Can disciplinary integration promote students lifelong learning attitudes and skills in project-based engineering courses? International Journal of Engineering Education, 31(1(B)), 434-449.Stefanou, C., Stolk, J. D., Prince, M., Chen, J. C., & Lord, S. M. (2013). Self-regulation and autonomy in problem- and project-based learning environments. Active Learning in Higher Education, 14(2), 109-122. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
