Faculty Profile for Jean J. Huang, Ph.D. | Olin College of Engineering Olin College of Engineering Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Engage with Olin Engage with Olin External Educators Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Return to Campus Inauguration The Wire Blogs News & Events About Campus Give Home Jean J. Huang News October 28, 2021 Olins Time to Shine Students, staff, and faculty are working together to generate solar energy on campus. Read More September 30, 2021 Hendren Wins 2021 Science in Society Journalism Award Read More September 15, 2021 Olin is Among Researchers Awarded $25M for NSF Spectrum Innovation Center Award brings spectrum-related research opportunities to Olin and Olin undergrads for years to come. Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Jean J. Huang, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Biology - On Leave Fall 2021 Milas Hall 266 On Leave 781-292-2584 jean.huang@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Biology, California Institute of Technology B.A., Biology, Wellesley College Select Courses TaughtBiomimicrySix Microbes that Changed the WorldMicrobial DiversityPrinciples of Modern BiologySustainability Synthesis Capstone (Babson, Olin, Wellesley Collaboration)ResearchMicrobial Diversity and Cultivation Photosynthetic bacteria Microbial Ecology and Community Interactions Biography Dr. Jean Huang joins Olin from the University of Washington, Seattle, where she was a postdoctoral scholar in the Department of Microbiology. She received a Ph.D. in biology from the California Institute of Technology, and a B.A. in Biology from Wellesley College. Dr. Huang has also studied the microbial world at the Marine Biological laboratory in Woods Hole, MA, first as a student and then as a teaching assistant for the Microbial Diversity Summer Course. Dr. Huang is recipient of a teaching award from Caltech, and she was a US EPA STAR predoctoral fellow. She has also been a faculty collaborator for the DOE-JGI Undergraduate Genome Annotation Program and a participant of the NSF/ASM Biology Scholars Program. Dr. Huang is enthusiastic about studying the diversity and physiology of photosynthetic bacteria and about applying bacterial metabolic capabilities towards solving environmental challenges. Select Publications Overney, C. E., & Huang, J. J. (2020) Genome Sequence of Bacillus megaterium O1, a Saponin-Degrading Bacterium. Microbiology Resource Announcements, 9(40).Stella, N.A., Callaghan, J.D., Zhang, L., Brothers, K.M., Kowalski, R.P., Huang, J.J., Thibodeau, P.H., & Shanks, R.M. (2017) SlpE is a calcium-dependent cytotoxic metalloprotease associated with clinical isolates of Serratia marcescens. Research in Microbiology 168(6):567-574.Zhu, M., McCully, L. M., Silby, M. W., Charles-Ogan, T. I., Huang, J.J., & Brigham, C. J. (2015) Draft Genome Sequence of Ralstonia sp. MD27, a Poly (3-Hydroxybutyrate)-Degrading Bacterium, Isolated from Compost. Genome A., 3(5), e01170-15.Kernan, C., Chow, P. P., Christianson, R. J., & Huang, J.J (2015) Experimental and Computational Investigation of Biofilm Formation by Rhodopseudomonas palustris Growth under Two Metabolic Modes. PloS One 10(6), e0129354. Huang, J.J., Heiniger, E, Mckinlay, J and C.S. Harwood. (2010) Production of hydrogen gas from light and the inorganic electron donor thiosulfate by Rhodopseudomonas palustris. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 76 (23): 7717-22.Schaefer, A.L., Greenberg, E.P., Oliver, C.M., Oda, Y., Huang, J.J., Banin, G., Peres, C.M., Schmidt, S., Juhaszova, K., Sufrin, J. and Harwood, C.S. (2008) A new class of acyl-homoserine lactone quorum sensing signals. Nature. 454:595-9. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2021 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
