Kan Yang - Computer Science - The University of Memphis Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Full-Time Faculty Affiliate Faculty Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows & Researchers Industrial Advisory Board Retired Faculty Alumni Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedn Home Computer Science People Kan Yang Kan Yang Assistant Professor Phone 901.678.3139 Email Kan.Yang@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.1506 Office Dunn Hall 305 Office Hours Call for hours Degree: PhD, Computer Science, City University of Hong Kong, 2013 Research Interests:Data security (cloud, fog, IoT), blockchain (security, privacy, consensus, block validation, synchronization), adversarial machine learning (federated learning, deep learning), network security and trust (crowdsourcing, ICN, NDN, 5G, VANET, WMN), applied cryptography Personal Website:http://www.cs.memphis.edu/~kanyang/ Google Scholar Dr. Kan Yang joined the Department as a tenure-track assistant professor in Spring 2017. Dr. Yang received his B.Eng. degree in Information Security from the University of Science and Technology of China in 2008, and his PhD degree in Computer Science with outstanding research thesis award from City University of Hong Kong in 2013 supervised by Prof. Xiaohua Jia. During his PhD studies, he was a visiting student in the Department of CSE at the State University of New York at Buffalo, supervised by Prof. Kui Ren. From Sept. 2013 to July 2014, he was a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of CS at City University of Hong Kong. From July 2014 to June 2016, he was a postdoctoral fellow and coordinated the security group at the Broadband Communications Research (BBCR) group in the Department of ECE at the University of Waterloo, co-supervised by Prof. Xuemin (Sherman) Shen and Prof. Anwar Hasan. Dr. Yang has published more than 50 high quality papers that appear in prestigious venues including IEEE TIFS, TDSC, IOTJ, TPDS, TVT, TMM, TWC, COMMAG, WirelessMag, INFOCOM, ICDCS, and AsiaCCS. His research is well recognized, and his publications have received over 3400 citations (h-index of 27) as of Jan 2020 according to Google Scholar. He has served as the TPC member for many international conferences, including ICC, Globecom, Blockchain, IPCCC, ICCCN, MASS, WCSP, ICNC, VTC, and AsiaCCS-SCC. He is also an active reviewer for many top journals and conferences, such as IEEE TIFS, TDSC, TPDS, TCOM, TKDE, TCC, TMC, IOTJ, TVT, and INFOCOM, etc. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
