Santosh Kumar - Computer Science - The University of Memphis Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Full-Time Faculty Affiliate Faculty Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows & Researchers Industrial Advisory Board Retired Faculty Alumni Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedn Home Computer Science People Santosh Kumar Santosh Kumar Director, NIH Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K), and Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence Professor in Computer Science Phone 901.678.2487 Email Santosh.Kumar@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.1506 Office Dunn Hall 319 Office Hours Call for hours Degree: PhD, Computer Science, The Ohio State University, 2006 Teaching Interests:Wireless sensor networks, wireless networks, network design and performance analysis, operations research Research Interests:Mobile sensor big data, mobile health (mHealth), behavioral privacy, temporally-precise mHealth interventions Personal Website:https://md2k.org/santosh Google Scholar Dr. Santosh Kumar joined the Department in Fall 2006 after completing his PhD at The Ohio State University, where his dissertation was selected for the Presidential Fellowship award. In 2010, he was selected as one of America's ten most brilliant scientists under the age of 38 (called the "Brilliant Ten") by Popular Science magazine, becoming the first person in the Mid-South region to receive this honor. At the University of Memphis, he received an Early Career Research Award in 2008, the Faudree Professorship in 2011, and Distinguished Research Award in 2013. In 2015, he was promoted to full professor and named Tennessees first chair of excellence in Computer Science. Dr. Kumars research focusses on mobile health (or mHealth). He and his students have developed computational models to infer human health and behavior such as stress, conversation, smoking, craving, brushing, flossing, and cocaine use from wearable sensor data. Dr. Kumar's research works appear in highly-selective publication venues in computer science such as ACM UbiComp, ACM CHI, ACM MobiCom, ACM SenSys, ACM IPSN, ICML, IEEE INFOCOM, and several ACM and IEEE Transactions journals. His publications are widely cited, at an average of 70 citations per article. Dr. Kumar leads several large multidisciplinary projects in mHealth funded by both National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF). He currently leads ten federally-funded grants worth over $18 million. It includes multiple R01s from NIH and a national Center of Excellence on Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) funded by the Big Data-to-Knowledge (BD2K) initiative from NIH that involves over 20 scientists in computing, engineering, behavioral science, and medicine from 12 universities. This is complemented by a $4 million NSF grant from its data cyberinfrastructure program. As a leading expert on mobile health, Dr. Kumar is frequently invited to chair national meetings on mobile health and speak at national and international meetings in both computing and health. In 2013, he was invited to speak at the White House on the future of biosensors. In 2015, he was invited by NSF to speak about his career to aspiring investigators in smart health as a role model scientist. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/13/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
