Lan Wang - Computer Science - The University of Memphis Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Computer Science About News Future Students Current Students Research People Outreach Giving eCourseware umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact People Full-Time Faculty Affiliate Faculty Part-Time Instructors Staff Postdoctoral Fellows & Researchers Industrial Advisory Board Retired Faculty Alumni Take Action Career Paths Degree Programs Courses Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebookLinkedn Home Computer Science People Lan Wang Lan Wang Department Chair and Dunavant Professor Phone 901.678.1643 Email lanwang@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.1506 Office Dunn Hall 321/375A Office Hours Call for hours Degree: PhD, Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles, 2004 Research Interests:Internet architecture, network security, wireless sensor networks Personal Website:http://www.cs.memphis.edu/~lanwang/ Google Scholar Dr. Wang joined the Department in Fall 2004 after finishing her PhD at UCLA. She was promoted to Associate Professor in 2010 and to Full Professor in 2016. She became the department chair in Feb. 2016. Her research focuses on improving the scalability, reliability, and security of the Internet. She has received multiple major research grants from NSF, NIST, and DoD as well as several grants from the university. Most recently, she is on a team that received over $15 million from NSF for their "Named Data Networking" project. At the University of Memphis, Dr. Wang has taught a variety of courses including Networking and Information Assurance, Advanced Computer Networks, Wireless and Mobile Computing, Models of Computation, Web Services and the Internet, and Data Structures. As an active member of the research community, she has served on the program committee of more than 50 conferences and workshops. She is also interested in promoting female participation in computer science, co-organizing a "Networking Networking Women" panel at ACM SIGCOMM 2008 and an N2Women dinner at ACM SIGCOMM 2019. She started and has been advising the Women in Computing student chapter at the university. Dr. Wang is an IEEE Senior Member. She received the 2010 Early Career Research Award from the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Memphis and 2019 Alumni Association Distinguished Research Award in Science, Engineering, and Mathematics from the University of Memphis. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
