Faculty Resources Clarion University Main Navigation Degrees Clarion Online Academics Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Student Life Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Families Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff About Clarion Additional Information Apply Today Give To Clarion Locations News Events Directory Library Athletics MyClarion Tools Menu About Clarion Academics COVID-19 Tuition and Financial Aid Student Life Admissions Alumni and Friends Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and StaffIntegration Faculty Resources Faculty and Staff Faculty Resources From teaching fundamentals to policies, the Faculty Resource page is here to guide you from your first day in the classroom until the day of your retirement. Consider this your first stop in becoming the kind of faculty member who helps students find their way to a bright future and, quite possibly, inspires other faculty members in the process. We hope that you will find this page helpful in your teaching journey, and we welcome any suggestions or additions for its improvement. Advising Resources Advise your students to the best of your ability with these tools and tips. MyClarion Training Documents for Faculty & Staff Advisor Role and Expectations (coming soon) Advisor Training Levels (coming soon) Sample Department Manual (coming soon) Financial Aid Quick Facts For Faculty Information on Registrars web page Academic Policies Academic Forms FAQ's - Advising FAQ's - Financial Aid Key Student Support Numbers Additional Resources Student advising Good advising: responsibilities of students and faculty The Mentor, an online academic advising journal Working with parents Advising students on probation Academic Improvement Plans Student success center Teaching Fundamentals Need to some teaching wisdom? These resources are for new or current faculty members looking for inspiration and support. Teaching Inspiration Think about how you teach using Blooms Taxonomy. The Teaching ProfessorCollins, H. (2009, May). On Becoming a Teacher. Teaching Professor Lessons learned in using inquiry-based learning effectivelyGonzalez, J.J. (2013). My journey with Inquiry based learning. Journal on Excellence in College Teaching, 24 (2), 33-50 Becoming an effective teacher requires becoming self-aware and aware of social contextCohan, M. (2009, November/December). Bad apple: The social production and subsequent reeducation of a bad teacher. Change, 32-36. Creating a syllabus University syllabus policy A general overview of the purposes of effective syllabiSlattery, J. M., & Carlson, J. F. (2005). Preparing an effective syllabus. College Teaching, 53(4), 159-164. Why beginning to use a more learner-centered tone makes senseRichmond, A. S., Slattery, J., Morgan, R., Mitchell, N., Morgan, R.K., & Becknell, J. (2016). Can a learner-centered syllabus change students perceptions of student-professor rapport and master teacher behaviors? Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in Psychology, 2(3), 159-168. Translating learner-centered theory into practiceRichmond, A.S. (2016). Constructing a learner centered syllabus: One professors journey. IDEA Students prefer longer syllabi, while syllabus images do not seem to make a differenceHarrington, C. M., & Gabert-Quillen, C. A. (2015). Syllabus length and use of images: An empirical investigation of student perceptions. Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in Psychology, 1(3), 235-243. Considerations of the advantages and disadvantages of using trigger warnings in the classroomBoysen, G. A. (2017). Evidence-based answers to questions about trigger warnings for clinically-based distress: A review for teachers. Scholarship of Teaching and Learning In Psychology, 3(2), 163-177. Strategies to encourage students to use office hours rather than email to contact facultyJackson, L. E., & Knupsky, A. (2015). Weaning off of email: Encouraging students to use office hours over email to contact professors. College Teaching, 63(4), 183-184. Laptops and cellphone policies How are students using cellphones and how can we minimize phone-related distractions?Berry, M. J., & Westfall, A. (2015). Dial D for distraction: The making and breaking of cell phone policies in the college classroom. College Teaching, 63(2), 62-71 Planning the first and last day First day of class IcebreakersHolbert, R. G. (2015). Beginning with Bingo: An icebreaker to initiate classroom community. College Teaching, 63(4), 181-182 Last day of classUhl, C. (2005). The last class. College Teaching, 53(4), 165-166. Better use of Power Point Making effective PowerPoint presentations Students receiving slides without text learned more effectively and rated the course more positivelyHolstead, J. (2015). The impact of slide-construction in powerpoint: Student performance and preferences in an upper-level human development course. Scholarship Of Teaching And Learning In Psychology, 1(4), 337-348. FERPA and confidentiality of student records Clarions policy on confidentiality of student records ACADEMIC INTEGRITY Clarions Academic Honesty and Plagiarism Policy Memo to students on cheating Reporting academic integrity violations Plagiarism Quizzestest to see if students understand what we mean by plagiarism Test 1 Test 2 Teaching Innovation Looking for a way to enrich your classes? These resources provide tools and information to enhance your teaching. Teaching Blogs and Guides Stephen Chews video series on How Students Study and Learn. Video Topics Include: Developing a Mindset for Successful Learning, Beliefs That Make You FailOr Succeed, What Students should Understand About How People Learn, Cognitive Principles for Optimizing Learning, and I blew the Exam, Now What? Vanderbilt Center for TeachingTeaching Guides. This is the box store of teaching guides. Almost 100 different titles including: Grading Student Work, Learning Styles, Flipping the Classroom, Team-Based Learning, Peer Review Teaching, JITT- Just In Time Teaching, Increasing Inclusivity in the Classroom, Difficult Dialogs, Lecturing, New Teachers, Motivating Students, and many more Hand in Hand Authored by Clarion faculty, this blog examines timely issues in teaching. Teaching Professor blog. This free blog looks at current issues in college teaching. Sign up for the free weekly newsletter, listen to a free podcast, or create an account to access free reports on relevant faculty topics. Some products on this web page are ONLY available for purchase. Inside Higher Ed is an online faculty resource that includes news, opinion, surveys, webcasts and job listings. You can also sign up for a free subscription and gain access to hundreds of blogs on assorted college teaching issues. Chronicle of Higher Education (Available through Clarion libraries. Login required.) High-Impact Practices Efficacy-based teaching and learning strategies that are beneficial for students from many backgrounds George Kuh's key work on high impact practices. Association of American Colleges & Universities' chart on high-impact practices David Reinhart's essay on high-impact practices in a complex (splintered) culture Teaching our students to think, learn, and take tests more effectively Promoting student metacognition Students given active reading questions learn more effectively and perform better on recall tasksFleck, B., Richmond, A. S., Rauer, H. M., Beckman, L., & Lee, A. (2017). Active reading questions as a strategy to support college students textbook reading. Scholarship Of Teaching And Learning In Psychology, 3(3), 220-232. Guiding questions are an effective study method for all students, especially those struggling with reading comprehensionStiegler-Balfour, J. J., & Benassi, V. A. (2015). Guiding questions promote learning of expository text for less-skilled readers. Scholarship Of Teaching And Learning In Psychology, 1(4), 312-325. A decision-making model to help students identify problems on testsMitchell, M. L., & Slattery, J. M. (2017, Fall). Help for students who dont do well ontests. Eye on Psi Chi, 22(1), 12-15. Mark Mitchell's Tips for Students How do we find out what students know?- Student assessment Writing good multiple choice exam questions Tips on how to use multiple-choice tests to optimize student learning and performanceXu, X., Kauer, S., & Tupy, S. (2016). Multiple-choice questions: Tips for optimizing assessment in-seat and online. Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in Psychology, 2(2), 147-158. Carnegie Mellon Eberly Center Exam wrappers How testing can promote learningBrame, C. J., & Biel, R. (2015). Test-enhanced learning: The potential for testing to promote greater learning in undergraduate science courses. Cell Biology EducationLife Sciences Education, 14, 1-12. Student-written exam questions have positive outcomes in the classroom Corrigan, H., & Craciun, G. (2013). Asking the right questions: Using student-written exams as an innovative approach to learning and evaluation. Marketing Education Review, 23 (1), 31-35. Considering philosophies and strategies of gradingSchinske, J., & Tanner, K. (2014). Teaching more by grading less (or differently). Cell Biology EducationLife Sciences Education, 13, 159-166. Early assessments identify students who need more formal and informal helpKim, A. N., & Shakory, S. (2017). Early, but not intermediate, evaluative feedback predicts cumulative exam scores in large lecture-style post-secondary education classrooms. Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in Psychology, 3(2), 141-150. Grading student work Outcomes and Assessment Are your students learning? These resources offer information about assessment and how to use assessment results to improve your course or program. Best Practices and Resources ISLAB Institutional and Student Learning Advisory BoardInformation about Clarions assessment system and processes Assessment Documents and ResourcesAn overview in best practices in assessment with links to assessment resources Learning Outcomes LEAP Essential Learning OutcomesFrom the Association of Colleges and Universities, this outlines evidence-based high-impact practices that increase student retention and student engagement Clarion University student learning outcomesWhat we expect students to know and be able to do when they graduate Technology Resources Whether you are teaching online, face-to-face, or in a hybrid course, the resources in this section will enhance technology use and integrating technology into your classes. Resources for faculty teaching online Information about getting an online course approved, copyright issues, and Mediasite Live. Clarion Learning Technology Center The LTC staff provide resources, support and professional development for faculty to assist with the integration of technology and instructional design principles into teaching and learning online and face-to-face. Clarion Learning Technology Center Workshops LTC provides online, advanced, and virtual professional development opportunities focused on enriching teaching and learning through the use of technologies, giving both practical how to advice and exploring the pedagogy of technology use. Faculty D2L Resources How-to guides and demonstration for setting up the various D2L tools and third party resources Student D2L Resources Check out the guide to D2L for students, as well, to help them navigate D2L Teaching online certificate course Information about the required certification course for online teaching Quality Matters Rubric and Standards Quality Matters standards and best practices for course design when teaching online Tools for Student Success Campus Resources Student Success Center Center for First Year Experience Clarion career services Writing Center Tutoring and Testing Center for Wellness including counseling and health services Disability Support Services Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Student -Reporting and Referrals Student misconduct Reporting student misconduct How to report conduct violations: Online educational complaint form Clarion Student Code of Conduct Disciplinary procedures Reporting bullying Behavioral Assessment Referral Team: When you are worried about the behavior of a student, staff, or faculty member Reporting concerning/disruptive, abnormal, aggressive, threatening, destructive, or violent behavior Reporting academic integrity violations Academic integrity and student academic rights and regulations Sexual misconduct policy and what one needs to report How to support survivors of sexual assault When to refer a student to counseling Off campus resources Crisis/emergency numbers Faculty Development Being a faculty member is more than teaching. These resources provide information concerning growth in your career. Research and Grant Opportunities Information about faculty and faculty-mentored student grant and research opportunities at Clarion University Institutional Review Board reviews faculty and student research to ensure compliance with standards about human subjects and animal use The National Science Foundation (NSF) provides detailed assistance in the application process for science and social science grants Facilitating research at primarily undergraduate institutions is an initiative of NSF known as RUI National Endowments for the Humanities provides guidance in matching your humanities project to a federal grant. National Endowments for the Arts offers links to federal grants covering the arts. Research Experience for Undergraduate Faculty targets faculty who are interested in mentoring undergraduate research in mathematics. It is especially focused on underrepresented students. Council on Undergraduate Research One of the main organizations promoting faculty-mentored student research Ideas for promoting undergraduate research for underserved students in any field Promotion and Tenure University promotion and tenure guidelines Faculty evaluation guide Faculty Wellness Faculty wellness/Recreation Center Employee Assistance Program: a free assessment and referral service for employees and their family members; this includes up to three face-to-face sessions for you and everyone who lives in your house, as well as your parents, adult children, and siblings regardless of where they live. Policies and Professionalism You may need assistance navigating the various stages of your career. Allow these resources to guide you. Curricular policies and processes This describes how to change curriculum or courses and how to get approval for new courses or programs of study here at Clarion. Governance Faculty Senate State/System Resources PASSHE. A link to the website for Pennsylvanias State System of Higher Education PASSHE Self Service. This password protected portal allows you to view your payroll information and benefits participation information, enter leave and sick days, and sign up for account alerts. Use your Clarion password to enter the site. PASSHE Employee Benefits. This summary highlights the health and prescription drug benefits, supplemental benefits, retirement benefits, leave entitlement, and other voluntary benefit programs for State System Employees covered by APSCUF Faculty and Coaches, Nonrepresented, OPEIU, POA, and SPFPA Employees. Clarion University Human Resources Human Resources forms Frequently used forms including background checks, tuition waiver, direct deposit, evaluation forms, I-9 forms for international faculty as well as forms for new faculty. Policies University policies Academic Integrity and student academic rights and regulations Clarion Student Code of Conduct How to report conduct violations: Online educational complaint form Disciplinary Procedures Retirement The Association of Pennsylvania State Colleges and Universities Retired Faculty provides detailed information on the steps to retirement and includes instructions for membership in APSCURF. The site offers a handy retirement checklist and a link to the State System's retirement guidelines. Emeritus status outlines the policies and procedures associated with obtaining emeritus status after retirement. Details on eligibility and privileges are provided. Apply Today Schedule a Visit Give to Clarion More Information Academics Degrees and Programs Colleges and Schools Clarion Online Honors Program Pre-Professional Health Programs Department Chairs Career Services Academic Calendar Center for Access, Success, and Achievement Center for Student Outreach and Success Coaching Graduate Student Services Catalog & Class Schedules Registrar's Office Undecided Admissions Apply to Clarion For Counselors Freshmen Graduate International Programs Meet the Admissions Team Multicultural Resources Next Steps for Admitted Students Online Request Information Transfer Venango Campus Students Veterans & Military Visit Clarion Publications Tuition and Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Financial Literacy Scholarships Billing & Payments Residency Requirements Contact the Student Financial Services Office Student Consumer Information COVID-19 Information Student Life Becht Hall Campus Dining Clarion Students' Association Clubs, Organizations and Activities Cultural Night Health, Fitness and Wellness Living at Clarion Public Safety Student Affairs University Store About Clarion Campus Maps and Directions Community Computing Services Employment History Leadership Mascot Middle States Accreditation Mission Offices and Administration Policies Rankings Right to Know Athletics The Clarion University store DIRECTORY EMERGENCY INFO Library MyClarion Tools Virtual Tour website feedback covid-19 Clarion University Clarion University of Pennsylvania GPS Address: 909 E Wood St. Clarion PA, 16214 Mailing Address: 840 Wood St. Clarion PA, 16214 +1 800 672 7171 or +1 814 393 2000 Contact Us Right to Know Policy Fraud/Waste/Abuse Title IX Student Complaints Connect With Clarion Last Updated 3/4/20
