Carl Shapiro CARL SHAPIRO Last Modified: September 2021 Professor of the Graduate School, Walter A. Haas School of Business and Department of Economics, University of California at Berkeley Biography Carl Shapiro is Professor of the Graduate School at the Haas School of Business and the Department of Economics at the University of California at Berkeley. He also is the Transamerica Professor of Business Strategy Emeritus at the Haas School of Business. Shapiro had the honor of serving as a Senate-confirmed Member of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers during 2011-12. For the two years immediately prior to that, he was the Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Economics at the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice; he also held that position during 1995-96. From 1998 to 2008, Shapiro served as Director of the Institute of Business and Economic Research at UC Berkeley. He has been Editor and Co-Editor of the Journal of Economic Perspectives and a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, among other honors. Shapiro earned his Ph.D. in Economics at M.I.T. in 1981, taught at Princeton University during the 1980s, and has been on the faculty at UC Berkeley since 1990. Shapiro is the co-author, with Hal R. Varian, of Information Rules: A Strategic Guide to the Network Economy, published by the Harvard Business School Press. Information Rules has received critical acclaim for its application of economic principles to the Information Economy and has been widely read by managers and adopted for classroom use. Shapiro has published extensively in the areas of industrial organization, competition policy, patents, the economics of innovation, and competitive strategy. His current research interests include competition policy, the economics of innovation, the design and use of patents, housing finance, and energy and environmental economics. Testimony as an Expert Witness in Antitrust Cases Since returning to Berkeley in 2012 after serving as a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers, Shapiro has testified on behalf of the government in a number of important antitrust enforcement actions. Year Antitrust Enforcement Case Testitifed For 2019 State AGs challenge to T-Mobile/Sprint Merger Multiple States 2019 FTC challenge to Qualcomm's licensing practices FTC 2018 DOJ challenge to AT&T/Time Warner Merger U.S. Dept. of Justice 2018 Private challenge to JELD-WEN Acquisition of CMI Steves Doors 2018 FTC monopolization case against AbbVie FTC 2017 FTC pay-for-delay case against Actavis FTC 2016 FTC challenge to Staples/Office Depot Merger FTC 2013 DOJ challenge to BazaarVoice acquisition of PowerReviews U.S. Dept. of Justice Shapiro testified in 2002 in the Microsoft case on behalf of a group of States that were seeking stronger remedies than the U.S. Department of Justice had accepted in settlement. See his 2009 paper, Microsoft: A Remedial Failure, listed below. Contact Information E-mail: cshapiro-at-berkeley-dot-edu Home Page: http://faculty.haas.berkeley.edu/shapiro Haas School of Business University of California Berkeley, CA 94720-1900 phone: 510-642-5905 Shapiro Curriculum Vitae Recent Writings 2021 Antitrust: What Went Wrong and How to Fix It, Antitrust Magazine How Will the FTC Evaluate Vertical Mergers?, with Herbert Hovenkamp, Promarket Vertical Mergers and Input Foreclosure: Lessons from the AT&T/Time Warner Case, Review of Industrial Organization Judicial Response to the 2010 Horizontal Merger Guidelines, with Howard Shelanski, Review of Industrial Organization The 2010 Horizontal Merger Guidelines After 10 Years, with Joseph Farrell, Review of Industrial Organization 2020 Restoring Competition in the United States: A Vision for Antitrust Enforcement for the Next Administration and Congress, with Bill Baer, Jonathan B. Baker, Michael Kades, Fiona Scott Morton, Nancy L. Rose, and Tim Wu, Washington Center for Equitable Growth, November The Role of Antitrust in Preventing Patent Holdup, with Mark A. Lemley, University of Pennsylvania Law Review Joint Response to the House Judiciary Committee on the State of Antitrust Law and the Implications for Protecting Competition in Digital Markets, April 30, 2020 Comment on DOJ/FTC Draft Vertical Merger Guidelines. 2019 Protecting Competition in the American Economy: Merger Control, Tech Titans, Labor Markets, Journal of Economic Perspectives Antitrust and Innovation: Welcoming and Protecting Disruption, with Giulio Federico and Fiona Scott Morton, Innovation Policy and the Economy, National Bureau of Economic Research 2018 Antitrust in a Time of Populism, International Journal of Industrial Organization The Protecting Competition Standard, FTC Hearings on Competition and Consumer Protection in the 21st Century, November Horizontal Mergers, Market Structure, and Burdens of Proof, with Herbert Hovenkamp, Yale Law Journal How Antitrust Law Can Make FRAND Commitments More Effective, with A. Douglas Melamed, Yale Law Journal 2017 The Consumer Welfare Standard in Antitrust, Statement Before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Antitrust Subcommittee Whither Antitrust Enforcement in the Trump Administration?, with Steven Salop, Antitrust Source, February Berkeley Patent Damages Workshop Report, with Stuart Graham, Peter Menell and Tim Simcoe, Texas Intellectual Property Law Journal Property Rules vs. Liability Rules for Patent Infringement, January 2016 Patent Remedies, American Economic Review Papers & Proceedings Patent Assertions: Are We Any Closer to Aligning Reward to Contribution?, with Fiona Scott Morton, Innovation Policy and the Economy, National Bureau of Economic Research 2015 The Actavis Inference: Theory and Practice, with Aaron Edlin, Scott Hemphill, and Herbert Hovenkamp, Rutgers University Law Review Jean Tiroles Nobel Prize in Economics: The Rigorous Foundations of Post-Chicago Antitrust Economics, with Steven Salop, Antitrust 2014 Actavis and Error Costs: A Reply to Critics, with Aaron Edlin, Scott Hemphill, and Herbert Hovenkamp, Antitrust Source Strategic Patent Acquisitions, with Fiona Scott Morton, Antitrust Law Journal 2013 Activating Actavis, with Aaron Edlin, Scott Hemphill, and Herbert Hovenkamp, Antitrust Magazine A Simple Approach to Setting Reasonable Royalties for Standard-Essential Patents, with Mark Lemley, Berkeley Technology Law Journal 2012 Competition and Innovation: Did Arrow Hit the Bulls Eye?, in The Rate & Direction of Economic Activity Revisited, Josh Lerner and Scott Stern, eds. 2010 The 2010 Horizontal Merger Guidelines: From Hedgehog to Fox in Forty Years, Antitrust Law Journal Unilateral Effects Calculations The Year in Review: Economics at the Antitrust Division: 2009-2010, with Ken Heyer, Review of Industrial Organization Injunctions, Hold-Up, and Patent Royalties, American Law and Economics Review Recapture, Pass-Through, and Market Definition, with Joseph Farrell, Antitrust Law Journal Antitrust Evaluation of Horizontal Mergers: An Economic Alternative to Market Definition, with Joseph Farrell, B.E. Journal of Theoretical Economics: Policies and Perspectives Upward Pricing Pressure in Horizontal Merger Analysis: Reply to Epstein and Rubinfeld, with Joseph Farrell, B.E. Journal of Theoretical Economics: Policies and Perspectives Upward Pricing Pressure and Critical Loss Analysis, with Joseph Farrell, Competition Policy International Antitrust Journal In Honor of Oliver Williamson: Antitrust Economics, California Management Review 2009 The Year in Review: Economics at the Antitrust Division: 2008-2009, with Ken Heyer and Jeffrey Wilder, Review of Industrial Organization Updating the Merger Guidelines, ABA Antitrust Section, Fall Forum Competition Policy in Distressed Industries, ABA Symposium, Competition as Public Policy Microsoft: A Remedial Failure, Antitrust Law Journal 2008 Detecting and Reversing the Decline in Horizontal Merger Enforcement, with Jonathan Baker, Antitrust Magazine Merger to Monopoly to Serve a Single Buyer: Comment, with Jonathan Baker and Joseph Farrell, Antitrust Law Journal Improving Critical Loss, with Joseph Farrell, Antitrust Source Reinvigorating Horizontal Merger Enforcement, with Jonathan Baker, in How the Chicago School Overshot the Mark: The Effect of Conservative Economic Analysis on U.S. Antitrust, Robert Pitofsky, ed., Oxford University Press. How Strong Are Weak Patents?, with Joseph Farrell, American Economic Review Cournot Example 2007 Standard Setting, Patents, and Hold-Up, with Joseph Farrell, John Hayes and Theresa Sullivan, Antitrust Law Journal Patent Reform: Aligning Reward and Contribution, Innovation Policy and the Economy, National Bureau of Economic Research Antitrust, with Louis Kaplow, Chapter 15, in Handbook of Law and Economics, Volume 2 Patent Hold-Up and Royalty Stacking, with Mark A. Lemley, Texas Law Review Reply to Golden The Design and Use of Patents, IESE-BBVA Prize Lecture, Madrid, Spain Slides Market Definition in Crude Oil: Estimating the Effects of the BP/Arco Merger, with John Hayes and Robert Town, Antitrust Bulletin 2006 Prior User Rights, American Economic Review Papers & Proceedings 2005 Antitrust and Innovation, Testimony Before the Antitrust Modernization Commission Exclusionary Conduct, Testimony Before the Antitrust Modernization Commission Probabilistic Patents, with Mark A. Lemley, Journal of Economics Perspectives 2004 Patent System Reform: Economic Analysis and Critique, Berkeley Technology Law Journal Further Thoughts on Critical Loss, with Michael L. Katz, Antitrust Source The Economics of Information Technology, with Hal R. Varian and Joseph Farrell, Cambridge University Press 2003 Antitrust Analysis of Patent Settlements Between Rivals, Antitrust Magazine Economic Model Antitrust Limits to Patent Settlements, Rand Journal of Economics Appendix Critical Loss: Lets Tell the Whole Story, with Michael L. Katz, Antitrust Magazine The BP Amoco/ARCO Merger: Alaskan Crude Oil, with Jeremy Bulow, in The Antitrust Revolution, John Kwoka and Lawrence White, eds. The FTCs Challenge to Intels Cross-Licensing Practices, in The Antitrust Revolution, John Kwoka and Lawrence White, eds. Figure and Table 2002 and Earlier Competition Policy and Innovation, Report for the OECD, 2002 Antitrust Policy in the Clinton Administration, with Robert E. Litan, in American Economic Policy in the 1990s, 2002 Charts and Table Navigating the Patent Thicket: Cross Licenses, Patent Pools, and Standard Setting, Innovation Policy and the Economy, National Bureau of Economic Research, 2000 Scale Economies and Synergies in Horizontal Merger Analysis, with Joseph Farrell, Antitrust Law Journal, 2001 Setting Compatibility Standards: Cooperation or Collusion?, in Expanding the Bounds of Intellectual Property, 2001 Trans-Atlantic Divergence in GE/Honeywell: Causes and Lessons, with Donna E. Patterson, Antitrust Magazine, 2001 Competition Policy: A Century of Economic and Legal Thinking, with William Kovacic, Journal of Economic Perspectives, 2000 Competition Policy in the Information Economy, in Competition Policy Analysis, 2000 Information Rules: A Strategic Guide to the Network Economy, with Hal R. Varian, Harvard Business School Press, 1999 The Art of Standards Wars, with Hal R. Varian, California Management Review, 1999 Exclusivity in Network Industries, George Mason Law Review, 1999 Antitrust in Software Markets, with Michael L. Katz, in Competition, Innovation, and the Microsoft Monopoly, 1999 Versioning: The Smart Way to Sell Information, with Hal R. Varian, Harvard Business Review, 1998 Antitrust Issues in the Licensing of Intellectual Property: The Nine No-Nos Meet the Nineties, with Richard J. Gilbert, Brookings Papers on Economics: Microeconomics, 1997
