Martin Ross | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Martin Ross Associate Professor, Applied Quaternary Science, Associate Dean Graduate StudiesMartin Ross aims to understand the Earths recent past; more specifically, the glaciations of the Quaternary Period, which encompasses the last 2.6 million years of Earths history. Reconstructing past glaciations helps scientists better understand how glaciers have modified the surface of the Earth and its shallow subsurface. This knowledge can be applied to a wide range of problems including mineral exploration under glacial sediment cover, natural hazards, and water resources in glaciated watersheds. Contact informationOffice: EIT 2045 Phone: 519-888-4567, ext.38171Email: maross@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Applied Quaternary geology (e.g. hydrostratigraphy, drift exploration), 3D geologic modeling and GIS, Glacial geology, sedimentology, sediment geochemistry, shallow geophysics Research Professor Ross' research is focused on past glacial environments with particular emphasis on glacial sediment-landsystems, landscape evolution of glaciated terrains, and related applications (e.g. drift prospecting and hydrostratigraphy). The general goals are to: advance our understanding of ice sheet dynamics; determine the origin of complex subglacial landform assemblages; establish the net effect of glaciations on sediment dispersion and; establish subsurface sedimentary architecture of glaciated terrains. The approach is multi-faceted, involving the examination of glacial features and sediments in the field or from borehole samples and logs, as well as in the laboratory (e.g. sediment properties and composition, geochronology). Healso uses high-resolution shallow geophysics (e.g. seismic,Ground-penetrating radar [GPR]), satellite imagery and digital elevation models, as well as computer geomodeling tools to visualize, analyze and interpret the data in their spatial context. His research group is particularly active in investigating the imprint of palaeo-ice streams, the glacial erosion and dispersal patterns in Arctic Canada, as well as the stratigraphy and hydrostratigraphy of glaciated terrains at various scales from buried valleys to continental sediment cover. More information on his current projects can be found on the following websites: Integrated Multi-Parameter Footprints of Ore Systems: The Next Generation of Ore Deposit Models -NSERC-CMICIndustrial ResearchNetwork Slave Province Surficial Materials and Permafrost Study -Northwest Territories Geological Survey Teaching Professor Ross'course offerings have included Undergraduate Introduction to sedimentology (UW) Quaternary geology (UW) International field trips (UW) Graduate Global problems of the Quaternary (UW) Special topics courses: Ice sheet dynamics (UW) 3DGeomodelling(UW andTurku, Finland) Highlighted Publications Recent publications include Atkinson, L.A., Ross, M., Stumpf, A.J., 2014. Three-dimensional hydrofacies assemblages in ice-contact/proximal sediments forming a heterogeneous "hybrid" hydrostratigraphic unit in central Illinois, USA. Hydrogeology Journal, 22(7): 1605-1624. doi. 10.1007/s10040-014-1156-7 Trommellen, M.S.,Ross, M., 2014. Distribution and type of sticky spots at the centre of adeglacialstreamlined lobe in northeastern Manitoba, Canada.Boreas. 10.1111/bor.12064 Trommelen, M.S., Ross, M., Campbell J.E.,2014. Ribbed moraines in northern Manitoba, Canada:Characteristics and formation as part of asubglacialbed mosaic near the core regions of ice sheets.Quaternary Science Reviews 87: 135-155. Please see Martin Ross' ResearchGate profilefor a currentlist ofhis peer-reviewed articles. University of WaterlooAffiliations Waterloo Artificial Intelligence Institute Water Institute Professional Associations and Service 2016 Chair of the Canadian Sedimentology Research Group (CSRG) 2015Guest Editor (Journal of Sedimentary Geology) 2015Vice-Chair, Canadian Sedimentology Research Group (CSRG) 2012-presentGraduate Officer, Department of Earth & Env. Sciences, U. Waterloo 2012-2014Geological Association of Canada (GAC), Council member, Chair Science Program 2011-2012Geological Association of Canada (GAC), Council member, Science Program Committee 2005-presentReviewer for several national and international scientific journals and funding agencies 2007-presentUW representative, Canadian Society of Petroleum Geologists 2009-2010FQRNT Panel member Subcommittee Environnement/Sol/Air B 2008-2009NSERC reviewer Strategic Projects, Panel A and Panel B 2007FQRNT reviewer Early career researcher program Professional affiliations:Association of Professional Geoscientists of Ontario (Registered Professional Geoscientist), Geological,Association of Canada, Canadian Quaternary Association, Canadian Geomorphology Research Group,Geological Society of America, American Geophysical Union Degrees 2004PhD Earth Sciences, Universit du Qubec (INRS Research Institute) 1997MScEarth Sciences, Universit du Qubec Montral (UQAM) 1994BSc Earth Sciences, Universit du Qubec Montral (UQAM) Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (43)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3)Staff (1) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
