Clair Brown, Author at Institute for Research on Labor and Employment Navigate About About IRLE Contact Support IRLE Centers & Programs Center for Labor Research and Education CaliforniaPolicyLab Center for the Study of Child Care Employment Center on Wage and Employment Dynamics California Public Employee Relations All Affiliated Centers & Programs Publications COVID-19 Research and Resources Policy Briefs Working Papers Scholarly Publications Industrial Relations Journal Student Publications Replication Data Search All Publications People Staff Experts IRLE Leadership Faculty Affiliates Working Groups Visiting Scholars Opportunities Opportunities for Faculty Opportunities for Students Job Opportunities Newsroom In the News Commentary Press Releases Newsletter Archive Events Clair Brown Dr. Clair Brown is Professor of Economics and Director of the Center for Work, Technology, and Society at the University of California, Berkeley. Prof Brown is a past Director of the Institute of Industrial Relations (IRLE) at UCB. Clair has published research on many aspects of how economies function, including high-tech industries, development engineering, the standard of living, wage determination, poverty, and unemployment. Her books include American Standards of Living, 1919-1988, and Chips and Change: How crisis reshapes the semiconductor industry. Clairs contributions to the field of Labor Economics were recognized by the Labor and Employment Relations Association, who awarded her their Lifetime Achievement Award in 2010. Clairs economic approach and life as an economist is published in Eminent Economists II Their Life and Work Philosophies (Cambridge University Press, 2013). In 2013 at UC Berkeley, Clair helped create a new program called Development Engineering, for graduate students in engineering and economics to develop their multidisciplinary skills for designing, building, and evaluating new technologies to help developing regions. In 2011, Clair began a field, Buddhist Economics, at UC Berkeley. Buddhist economics integrates global sustainability and shared prosperity to provide a holistic model of economic behavior and well-being. Her book Buddhist Economics: An enlightened approach to the dismal science will be published by Bloomsbury Press in January 2017. One aspect of this work is the development of a measure of economic performance based on the quality of life, and to estimate it for state of California. This index integrates measurements of inequality and environmental degradation as well as value of nonmarket activities and consumption to provide an inclusive measurement of sustainable economic performance to guide policy. You can listen to Clairs presentation to the Commonwealth Club on Creating Quality of Life in a Sustainable Global Economy, May 12, 2016. IRLE Publications by Clair Brown Using a business function framework to examine outsourcing and offshoring by US organizations Clair Brown, Julia Lane and Timothy SturgeonJune 1, 2014 Working Papers The 2010 National Organizations Survey: Examining the Relationships Between Job Quality and the Domestic and International Sourcing Clair Brown, Connor Cole and Timothy SturgeonDecember 1, 2013 Working Papers Estimating Net Costs of Adopting Family Friendly Policies at Universities: Description of a Simulation Program Clair Brown and Eric FreemanAugust 1, 2013 Working Papers ReadyMade Analysis of Berkeley Scholars to Cal Program Clair Brown and Kate BelohlavMay 1, 2012 Working Papers ReadyMade Analysis of Hospital de la Familias Cataract Surgery Program in Guatemala Ariel Chait, Clair Brown, Eric Freeman, Kate Belohlav and Lawrence ThalFebruary 1, 2012 Working Papers Berkeley ReadyMade Impact Assessment: Developing an Effective and Efficient Assessment Template for Social Enterprises Ariel Chait, Clair Brown and Eric FreemanAugust 1, 2011 Working Papers Managing Knowledge Workers in Global Value Chains Clair Brown and Greg LindenOctober 1, 2010 Working Papers Is There a Shortage of Engineering Talent in the U.S.? Clair Brown and Greg LindenJune 1, 2008 Working Papers Semiconductor Capabilities in the U.S. and Industrializing Asia Clair Brown and Greg LindenMarch 1, 2008 Working Papers Semiconductor Engineers in a Global Economy Clair Brown and Greg LindenJanuary 1, 2007 Working Papers 1 2 Next Center for Work, Technology & Society Clair Brown, WTS Chaircbrown@econ.berkeley.edu Curriculum Vitae Learn about Clair Project Areas In the News Podcasts PublicationsNew Book! Institute for Research on Labor and Employment 2521 Channing Way #5555 Berkeley, CA 94720-5555 (510) 643-8140 Privacy | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination Twitter Facebook LinkedIn UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
