History of Women Faculty in Economics | Department of Economics Jump to navigation Facebook Twtitter Instagram Linkedin Search form Search AboutAbout Us History of Women Faculty in Economics Chairs & Managers Staff Research Centers E-newsletter Signup Resources NewsEvents Newsroom Newsletter Publications FacultyFaculty Profiles Emeritus Affiliates In Memoriam GraduateGraduate Program Admissions Current Students Graduate Profiles Employment 2021-2022 Ph.D. Job Market Candidates UndergraduateUndergraduate Program Advising Course Enrollment Prospective Majors Current Majors Student Organizations Commencement Tutoring FAQ CoursesCourse List Seminars This Week's Seminars Next Week's Seminars GiveCharter Hill Society for Economics Give today Climate AlumniNetwork Submit a note Events Alumni Notes About History of Women Faculty in Economics History of Women Faculty in EconomicsIn celebration of the 150th anniversary of women being admitted to U.C. Berkeley "on equal terms in all respects with young men," we offer this history of women faculty in the Economics Department.The Economics Department at U.C. Berkeley was founded in 1903. In its second year, two women were hired: Jessica Peixotto and Lucy Sprague. Professor Peixotto was hired first as a "lecturer in sociology" and then as an Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor of Social Economics. Dr. Peixotto was the first woman on the Berkeley faculty to be awarded the rank of full professor. Lucy Sprague served only one year in the Economics department as a "reader in economics" before becoming the Dean of Women and a lecturer in the English department.Jessica Peixotto was the first but not the only woman faculty member in the department. In the early 20th century, several other women were hired by the Economics department as faculty: Lucy Stebbins, Lillian Matthews, Lucile Eaves, Louise Morrow, Clara Mortenson, Caroline Schleef, Barbara Grimes Armstrong, Emily Huntington, and others. With the notable exception of Professor Huntington, however, all these women were faculty of "Social Economics." Indeed by the mid-1930s, 5 of the 29 faculty listed in the course catalog were women.In 1939 the Department of Social Welfare was created, and the women who had been teaching courses such as "The Control of Poverty," "Studies in Standards of Living," "Economics of Consumption," and "Social Insurance" moved from Economics to Social Welfare. By the end of World War II, only 1 woman remained active on the Economics faculty: Emily Huntington. After her retirement in 1961, the department had no women faculty.The second wave of women in economics begins in 1974 with the hiring of Clair Brown, followed a few years later by Laura Tyson and Joan Hannon. Irma Adelman joins the department as a full professor in 1980, though her primary appointment was in Agricultural and Resource Economics. With the hiring of Alessandra Casella, Bronwyn Hall, and Christina Romer in 1988 and 1989, the modern era was fully underway.We have assembled here biographical sketches of some of these women. Our first set of interviews with Clair Brown, Joan Hannon, and Laura Tyson form the basis of those articles. We also interviewed the son of Dr. Margaret Gordon who served as a Lecturer in the Economics department in the late 1960s and early 1970s, banned by anti-nepotism laws from taking a faculty appointment in the same department as her husband, Robert Aaron Gordon. Our second set of interviews were with Alessandra Casella, Hilary Hoynes, Martha Olney, and Christina Romer. This project was directed by Prof. Martha Olney. All the work was done by teams of undergraduate economics majors who served as RAs: Lindsay Gyeongjin Earhart '21, Caitlin Hartley '20, Carol Lee '20, Nicole Mashoudy '21, Audrey Oas '21, Renee Utter '21, and Jazz van Horn '21. Jessica Blanche PeixottoYears active: 1904-1934 Jessica Blanche Peixotto was unquestioningly a trailblazer for womens education during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In tandem with a time of rapidly changing societal attitude towards formal womens education, she was the second woman to receive a Ph.D. and the first woman to hold a full-time faculty appointment at the University of California. Unwavering in her devotion to social justice and her education, she was aptly portrayed in the citation of her honorary Doctor of Laws degree in 1936: Chosen counselor of the State in matters concerning the protection of children and the care of the unfortunate; social economist marshaling stubborn facts in the service of mankind; comrade among students, inspiring teacher, true lover of humanity. This is her story. Read more . . . Lucy Ward StebbinsYears active: 1911-1940 Barbara Grimes ArmstrongYears active: 1919-1927 Margaret Shaughnessy GordonYears as a lecturer: 1969-1978 The history of women in the Department of Economics is complicated and it remains unclear whether Margaret Gordon preferred or pursued greater opportunities within the department. In the same field as her husband, Robert (Aaron) Gordon, she was ineligible for a ladder-faculty position due to former anti-nepotism rules. She prioritized her role at home when many young academics in her position would be establishing their careers. Highly educated and industrious, she remained active through civic leadership and research roles while juggling full-time responsibilities for her two children. To learn more about her personal qualities, we interviewed her eldest son, Robert (Bob) Gordon, a professor of economics at Northwestern University. . . She took the anti-nepotism fate that had cast her into this supporting role as a fait accompli. And she never complained about it and very rarely speculated. Read more . . . Clair BrownYears active: 1974 - present Clair Brown was the first woman to be hired for a tenure track faculty position at the Berkeley Economics Department, since the beginning of World War II. A native of Florida, Brown completed her Ph.D. in economics with a focus on Labor Economics at the University of Maryland. She joined the Berkeley economics department in January 1974. Brown was not just witness to but was also instrumental in increasing womens presence in Berkeleys Economics Department. A math major at Wellesley, Clair wanted to help make the world a better place. It was the 1960s and change was at the forefront of most college students minds. Ultimately, Clair realized there wasnt much social reform to be done with mathematical proofs. Read more . . . Joan Underhill HannonYears active: 1977-1986 Joan Underhill Hannon joined the Berkeley Economics department in 1977, upon completion of her Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Raised in Long Beach, CA and a graduate of UC Santa Cruz, Hannon is an economic historian whose research focuses on 19th century U.S. immigration and poverty. At Berkeley, Hannon taught graduate and undergraduate courses in economic history. Hannon was denied tenure in 1985. She subsequently moved to and was tenured at St. Marys College of California in nearby Moraga, from where she retired in the 2010s. Hannons experience and ultimate departure from Berkeley is an important part of the fabric of women facultys experience. Hannons politics and intellectual lens always put her more in what is now termed the heterodox camp of economics, and what was in the 1970s and 1980s termed the Marxist or leftist camp. Read more . . . Laura D'Andrea TysonYears active: 1977 - present Professor Tyson was born in Bayonne, New Jersey in 1947. Growing up during a period of rising economic prosperity, a growing middle class, emerging civil rights and gender equality movements, and cold war geopolitical conflict, Tyson found herself drawn to public policy. Her father received his college education through the GI Bill, and she grew up in a home where college education was highly valued as the foundation of a middle class life. Tyson attended a small co-ed Catholic high school, where Catholic do good ideals aligned with the potential for positive impact through policy. Here, she also discovered her talent for math. She was encouraged by consistent support from her teachers who were mostly nuns, including a tough-minded, demanding math teacher a contrast to the girls arent good at math narrative that persists in high school classrooms today. Read more . . . Alessandra Casella Years active: 1987-1993 Born and raised in Milano, Italy, Alessandra Casellas academic journey in the United States started in 1982 when, as a junior at Bocconi University, she spent one semester as an exchange student at NYU. Casella instantly fell in love with New York. The freedom and diversity of New York were liberating. Casellas intellectual curiosity was heavily influenced by her family, the majority of whom had been academics for several generations. That, and a healthy dose of sibling competition, led her to pursue a Ph.D. at MIT after receiving her bachelors degree from Bocconi University summa cum laudein Economics and Social Sciences in 1983. Read more . . . Christina Romer Years active: 1988 - present Growing up, Christina Romer found a natural interest in public policy questions. With a grandfather who was a newspaper editor and a mother who listened to the news all the time, Romers formative years were surrounded by discussions on topics such as the 1970s gasoline shortages, inflation, and high unemployment. Romer entered The College of William and Mary for her undergraduate career in 1977 believing that she was going to study political science and become a lawyer. Upon taking a required year of economics classes, Romer decided to switch majors to economics. Read more . . . Hilary Hoynes Years active: 1992-2000, 2013-present Had she been born 70 years earlier, Hilary Hoynes would have been Jessica Peixottos ideal colleague. Hoyness research agenda mirrors that of Peixotto, with work in poverty, inequality, food and nutrition programs, and the impacts of government tax and transfer programs on low income families. But where the women in the Economics Department who studied these topics in the 1920s and 1930s were relocated to the new School of Social Work in 1939, by 2013 Hoynes had found a permanent home in the Economics Department and the Goldman School of Public Policy where she serves as the Haas Distinguished Chair in Economic Disparities. Read more . . . Martha Olney Years Active: 1992 - present Martha Olney was born in Oakland, CA and grew up in the Bay Area. She very much stumbled into studying economics. It was 1975, the beginning of her sophomore year at the University of Redlands. Class registration was in the sweltering hot gym, with tables lined up around the edges in alphabetical order. The English department did not have the class Olney needed, and so another option was needed. I backed into the middle of the room. [The tables were] English, then Engineering, and then Economics. I didnt want to take engineering. There was no line at the economics table. So I went to the economics table and because it was 106 degrees, I was inside a gym, it was hotter than spit, and there was no air conditioning, I said Do you have anything thats a Tuesday/Thursday morning class? They had something called Intro to Micro. I said Good, Ill take it and signed up. Thats it. Thats how well thought out this was. Read more . . . originally posted 9/24/2020updated 4/19/2021, 6/6/2021, 6/14/2021, 6/15/2021, 6/18/2021Author: Martha Olney (olney@berkeley.edu) About About Us History of Women Faculty in Economics Chairs & Managers Staff Research Centers E-newsletter Signup Resources What's New Publications News Events Research & Teaching Contact details How to reach us LOCATION 530 Evans Hall #3880 Berkeley, California 94720-3880 Directions and delivery information OFFICE HOURS 9:00 AM - 4:00 PM TELEPHONE (510) 642-0822 Fax: (510) 642-6615 E-MAIL econdept@berkeley.edu Copyright 2015 UC Regents. University of California, Berkeley | College of Letters & Science 530 Evans Hall #3880, Berkeley, California 94720-3880Tel: (510) 642-0822 / Fax: (510) 642-6615 / E-mail: econdept@berkeley.edu UCB Privacy Statement | DisclaimerFor website updates, please contact web@econ.berkeley.edu
