Yuri Leonenko | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Yuri Leonenko Associate Professor, Geological EngineeringYuri Leonenko studies how we can best capture and store CO2 into underground formations in order to limit the increasing impact of global warming. His research involves understanding the complex multi-phase flows and transport phenomena that regulate how CO2behaves in the porous subsurface. Professor Leonenko has a joint appointmentwith the Department of Geography and Environmental Management. Contact informationOffice: EIT 2048 Phone: 519-888-4567, ext. 32160Email: leonenko@uwaterloo.ca Website: Graduateopportunities Expertise Complex multi-phase flows and transport phenomena Geological storage of CO2 and climate control Emerging technologies of petroleum and energy production Research Professor Leonenkofocuses on the development of Climate Control technologies with anemphasis on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Industrial scale CO2 storage projects, now operational or in the design phase, provide strong empirical support for the view that CO2 storage can be implemented safely.Nevertheless, significant uncertainties remain regarding the security of underground storage at the scales necessary for this technology to play a significant role in managing global emissions. A critical issue for geological storage is to ensure that the stored CO2 does not escape from the underground formations. Current research interests are in the area of development of new approaches and technologies to mitigate the risks of CO2 leakage (along with other risks) to make CCS more feasible to implement. Modeling and numerical simulation of multiphase flow in porous media, fractures and faults; interactions between CO2 and reservoir fluids; novel technologies for in situ and ex situ dissolution of CO2, and risk assessments are among the topics of Professor Leonenkos research. He has played significant role in establishing the Carbon Management Canada (CMC) Center of Excellence with $50 million of government funding.He is also actively involved in the development and promotion of Carbon Capture and Storage technologies, including theShell Sequestration Project and the Wabamun Lake CO2 Sequestration Project (Phase-I, preliminary research). This research hasled to more than $1 billion in commercial developments. Teaching Professor Leonenkoteaches both undergraduate and graduate courses. Current course offerings at the Unversityof Waterloo include: SCI 201- Global Warming and Climate Change GEOG 696 - Environmental Science Special Topics Course: Climate Control Highlighted Publications Professor Leonenkohas published in high ranked journals such as Chemical Engineering Journal, Energy and Fuels, Environmental Science and Technology, International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control, International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, Chemical Engineering Science, Chemical Engineering and Technology, and Langmuir.Recent publications include: A. Joshi, S. Gangadharan and Y. Leonenko. "Modeling of pressure evolution during multiple well injection of CO2 in saline aquifers."Journal of Natural Gas Science and Engineering36, (2016): 1070-1079 A. Cholewinski, J. Dengis, V. Malkov and Y. Leonenko. "Modeling of CO2 injection into aquifers containing dissolved H2S."Journal of Natural Gas Science and Engineering36A, (2016): 1080-1086. S. Ghaderi and Y. Leonenko. "Reservoir modeling for Wabamun lake sequestration project."Energy Science & Engineering3, no. 2 (2015): 98-114. S. Zendehboudi, A. Shafiei, A. Bahadori, Y. Leonenko, I. Chatzis. Droplets evolution during ex situ dissolution technique for geological CO2 sequestration: Experimental and mathematical modelling. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control 13, (2013): 201214. S. Zendehboudi, Y. Leonenko, A. Shafiei, M. Soltani and I. Chatzis. Modeling of CO2 droplets shrinkage in ex situ dissolution approach with application to geological sequestration: Analytical solutions and feasibility study. Chemical Engineering Journal 197, (2012): 448458. S. Zendehboudi, A. Khan, S Carlisle and Y. Leonenko. Ex-Situ Dissolution of CO2: A New Technology for Enhancement of CO2 Sequestration. Energy and Fuels, 25(7), (2011): 33233333. S. Ghaderi, D. Keith, R. Lavoie and Y. Leonenko. Evolution of Hydrogen Sulfide in Sour Saline Aquifers During Carbon Dioxide Sequestration. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control, 5(2), (2011): 347-355. Awards and Distinctions 1997 European Academy Award to Young Scientists, Achievements in Investigation of Critical Phenomena 1996 Russian Academy of Science Award, Research achievements in Thermophysics and Hydrodynamics University of WaterlooAffiliations Cross appointedwith theDepartment of Geography and Environmental Management Member, Waterloo Institute for Sustainable Energy Member, Interdisciplinary Centre on Climate Change Professional Associations and Service Cross appointed with the Department of Geography and Environmental Management GHG (Green House Gas) Representative for UW Associate Membership in COSIA (Canada's Oil Sands Innovation Alliance) Degrees 1991 PhDThermodynamics and Fluid Mechanics,Institute of Thermophysics, Russian Academy of Science, Novosibirsk, Russia 1985 MSc Physics, Novosibirsk State University, Russia Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (43)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3)Staff (1) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
