Brewster Conant, Jr. | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Brewster Conant, Jr. Continuing Lecturer, Physical and contaminant hydrogeologyBrewster Conant, Jr. studies physical and contaminant hydrogeology. His primary interests are in groundwatersurface-water interactions and using innovative methods to determine conditions and fluxes at the interface. Dr. Conant is alsocommitted to improving undergraduate learning and teaching as well as professional training. He served as the department's first Teaching Fellow and created an Earth science communications course adopted by other UW departments. Contact informationOffice: EIT 2023 Phone: 519-888-4567, ext.37234Email: bconantj@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Groundwater-surface water interactions (streams, rivers, lakes) Temperature-as-a-tracer techniques (especially thermal infrared survey methods) for determining groundwater discharges to surface water Groundwater flow and contaminant transport Field instrumentation and monitoring techniques for hydrogeological and hydrological studies Assessing the effectiveness of agricultural best management practices on groundwater quality Research Brewster Conant'sresearch interests center on physical and contaminant hydrogeology, field-based investigations, and the development of field monitoring techniques and instrumentation. His primary interest is in the investigation of groundwater/surface-water interactions in rivers, streams, and lakes and the examination of groundwater flow and the transport and fate processes affecting contaminants (e.g., chlorinated solvents, nutrients and organic compounds) that pass through the interface. Recent work has focused on developing temperature-as-a-tracer techniques (especially thermal infrared surveys) to characterize groundwater discharge to surface waters and diffusion samplers to determine concentrations at the groundwater surface water interface. His long-term goals are to develop rapid, inexpensive, and practical site characterization tools and monitoring approaches that will assist in determining the ecological and human impacts of contaminated groundwater discharging into surface waters and improve decisions with respect to remedial actions. His research interests also includes assessing the effectiveness of agricultural best management practices on groundwater quality; watershed monitoring and hydrology; and wellhead protection. Teaching Dr. Conantiscommitted to improving undergraduate learning and teaching and providing professional training. He has served as the departments first Teaching Fellow. He organized the departments first teaching retreat to improve teaching. In collaboration with writing experts, he create a communication course for Earth scientists focused on assisting Chinese 2+2 students entering the program and supervised the adoption of the course in other UW departments. He has also taught several training sessions for the US Environmental Protection Agency, Ontario Ministry of the Environment, and as part of professional short-courses. Dr.Conant currentcourse offeringsinclude EARTH 10 Enhancing communication skills for Earth Science students EARTH 123L Field methods in hydrology EARTH 671Field methods in hydrogeology (contributing instructor) Past courses taught include EARTH 123 Introductory Hydrology EARTH 458 Physical Hydrogeology GL100 Introduction to Physical and Environmental Geology (at Wilfrid Laurier University) Highlighted Publications Refereed journal articles Wiebe, A.J., B. Conant Jr., D.L. Rudolph, and K. Korkka-Niemi, 2015. An approach to improve direct runoff estimates and reduce uncertainty in the calculated groundwater component in water balances of large lakes. Journal of Hydrology, v 531, p. 655-670. DOI: 10.1016/j.jhydrol.2015.10.061 Frey, S.K., D.L. Rudolph, and B. Conant Jr.,2012. Bromide and chloride tracer movement in macroporous tile drained agricultural soil during an annual climatic cycle. Journal of Hydrology, v 460-461, p. 77-89. Brookfield, A, E. Sudicky, Y-J Park, and B. Conant Jr., 2009. Thermal transport modelling in a fully-integrated surface/subsurface framework. Hydrological Processes, v. 23, no. 15, p. 2150 - 2164 Schmidt, C., B. Conant Jr., M.Bayer-Raich, and M. Schirmer, 2007. Evaluation and field-scale application of an analytical method to quantify groundwater discharge using mapped streambed temperatures, Journal of Hydrology, v 347, no. 3-4, p. 292-307. (doi:10.1016/j.jhydrol.2007.08.022) Conant Jr., B., J.A. Cherry, and R.W. Gillham, 2004. A PCE groundwater plume discharging to a river: Influence of the streambed and near-river zone on contaminant distributions. Journal of Contaminant Hydrology, v. 73, no. 1-4, 238-279. Conant Jr., B., 2004. Delineating and quantifying ground-water discharge zones using streambed temperatures, Ground Water, v 42, no. 2, p. 243-257. Bookchapters Conant Jr., B, S. Danielescu, H. Reeves, P. Coulibaly (2015, in review/public comment). Chapter 2: Groundwater-surface water interactions (GWSWI), in " Groundwater science relevant to the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement: A status report." Prepared for the Great Lakes Executive Committee by the Annex 8 Subcommittee (under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement). p. 6-15. http://binational.net/2015/12/03/groundwater-science/ Conant Jr., B., J.W. Roy, J. Patzke, C. Smith, L. Nicks (2015, in review/public comment). Chapter 3: Groundwater and Contaminants in the Great Lakes, in " Groundwater science relevant to the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement: A status report." Prepared for the Great Lakes Executive Committee by the Annex 8 Subcommittee (under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement). p. 16-29. http://binational.net/2015/12/03/groundwater-science/ Conference presentations in the field ofteaching Conant Jr., B., J. Jewinski, and J. Williams, 2015. A Course Template for Integrating Chinese Dual-Degree Students into a Science Program and Enhancing Their Communication Skills. The Western Conference on Science Education, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, July 7-10, 2015. (presenter) Conant Jr., B., J. Witt, C. Bissonnette, R. Jayasundera, and W-K Liu ,2015. Challenges Associated With High School Students Transitioning to University Science The View From Both Sides. University of Waterloos Opportunities and New Directions (OND) Teaching and Learning Conference, Waterloo, Ontario, April 30, 2015. (presenter) Jayasundera, R., J. Witt, C. Bissonnette, B. Conant Jr., W-K Liu, 2015. Bridging the Gap: Helping your students transition to University science. Group presentation for Waterloo Regional District School Board (WRDSB) Professional Development day. University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, April 17, 2015. (co-presenter) Jayasundera, R., J. Witt, C. Bissonnette, B. Conant Jr., W-K Liu, 2014. Bridging the Gap: Helping your students transition to University science. Group presentation at Science Teachers' Association of Ontario (STAO) 2014 Inspiring Innovation Meeting, Toronto, Ontario, Nov 13-15, 2014. (co-presenter) Conant Jr., B., J. Jewinski, and J. Williams, 2014. A Course Template for Integrating 2+2 Students and Enhancing their Communication Skills. University of Waterloos Opportunities and New Directions (OND) Teaching and Learning Conference, Waterloo, Ontario, May 1, 2014. (co-presenter) Awards and Distinctions 2012-2015Faculty of Science Teaching Fellow 2011Nominated by Region 5 for the national U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response National Notable Achievement Award 1999Ontario Graduate Scholarship in Science and Technology 1998Outstanding Student Paper Award. American Geophysical Union, Spring Meeting University of WaterlooAffiliations Member,The Water Institute Professional Associations and Service Association of Professional Geoscientists of Ontario (APGO) Geological Society of America (GSA) American Geophysical Union (AGU) National Ground Water Association (NGWA) Media Media andnews stories about Professor Conants teaching and researchinclude: August 2014. Centre for Teaching Excellence,Descriptions of LITE Grant Projects.Enhancing Writing and Communications Skills for Earth Sciences Students Fall 2013 Spring 2014.Earth and Environmental Sciencesdepartment newsletter (PDF).New equipment for first year hydrology laboratory class;Earth 10: Enhancing Writing and Communications Skills for Earth Sciences Students. Fall 2012 - The Grand: GrandRiver ConservationAuthorityWatershed Report.Hunting groundwater from the sky (PDF). June 17, 2009 - Today's Farmer.Innovative nitrogen research project launched. 2008 - Better Farming. Tile drains capture less water than expected (PDF). Fall 2008 - GroundTech Solutions, Geoprobe machines Education Uses brochure. University of Waterloo, Canada. Degrees 2001PhD Earth Sciences, Universityof Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario 1991MScEarth Sciences,Universityof Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario 1984BSc Geology-Physics/Mathematics, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (43)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3)Staff (1) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
