Thai Phan | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Thai Phan Assistant Professor, Metal Isotope GeochemistryThai Phans research interests mainly focus on understanding water-rock interactions and other geological and environmental processes associated with water cycles in both natural and engineered natural systems. Scientific investigations apply integrated approaches including laboratory experiments, field surveys, and geochemical modeling, particularly utilizing radiogenic (e.g., Sr, Sm-Nd) and stable metal (e.g., Li, B, Ba, U) isotopes to study environmental problems associated with geological carbon sequestration and natural resource development such as hydrocarbon extraction and mining. He is also interested in investigating how abiotic and microbial processes fractionate the isotopic composition of metals, allowing metal isotopes to be reliably used as environmental tracers. Contact informationOffice: EIT5023BPhone: 519-888-4567, ext. 37673Email: thai.phan@uwaterloo.ca Website: Thai Phan, Research and Teaching Expertise Dr. Phan uses geochemistry and metal isotopes to distinguish water-rock interactions and fluid mixing in groundwater aquifer and deep hydrocarbon reservoirs; trace the sources of salinity and contaminants in surface water; track origin and evolution of brine co-produced with oil and gas from hydraulically fractured shale reservoirs and CO2 injected dolomite formations; study the depositional environment and diagenetic history of shale and origin and diagenetic alterations of carbonate rocks; learn more about metal cycles in lake water and sediment which can serve as modern analogs of paleoenvironments. Research Dr. Phans PhD research investigated abiotic and microbial controls on U cycle in mining impacted lake sediment and water. His recent studies cover these topics: Environmental impacts of disposed drill cuttings of oil and gas wells from releasing of trace elements under surficial conditions. Using multiple isotope systems (Li, Sr, B, Ba) to identify water-rock interaction processes during hydraulic fracturing, and origin and evolution of wastewater co-produced with natural gas from hydraulically fractured Marcellus Shale. Redox conditions, sediment sources and ages, and diagenesis of Marcellus Shale. Developing effective monitoring methods for detecting CO2 and formation fluid leakage and water-rock interactions in geologic carbon storage and in shale systems using naturally occurring isotopes. Currently utilized isotope systems include Li, B, radiogenic Sr, and stable isotopes of C and O. Teaching EARTH 221: Geochemistry 1 (half-course) EARTH 622: Environmental Isotope Hydrology and Geochemistry Highlighted Publications Phan, T.T., Paukert Vankeuren, A.N., Hakala, J.A. 2018. Roles of waterrock interactions in the geochemical evolution of Marcellus Shale produced waters. International Journal of Coal Geology. Publication Link Phan, T.T., Gardiner, J.B., Capo, R.C., Stewart, B.W., 2018. Geochemical and multi-isotopic (Li, Sr, Nd, U) perspectives of sediment sources, depositional conditions, and diagenesis of Marcellus Shale, Appalachian Basin. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta. Publication Link Pfister, S., Capo, R.C., Stewart, B.W., Macpherson, G.L., Phan, T.T., Gardiner, J.B., Diehl, J.R., Lopano, C., Hakala, J.A., 2017. Geochemical and lithium isotope tracking of dissolved solid sources in Permian Basin carbonate reservoir and overlying aquifer waters at an enhanced oil recovery site, northwest Texas, USA Applied Geochemistry. Publication Link Phan, T.T., Capo, R.C., Stewart, B.W., Macpherson, G.L., Rowan, E.L, Hammack, R. W., 2016. Factors controlling Li concentration and isotopic composition in formation waters and host rocks of Marcellus Shale, Appalachian Basin. Chemical Geology. Publication Link Phan, T.T., Capo, R.C., Stewart, B.W., Graney, J.R., Johnson, J.D., Sharma, S., and Toro, J., 2015. Trace metal distribution and mobility in drill cuttings and produced waters from Marcellus Shale gas extraction: Uranium, arsenic, barium. Applied Geochemistry. Publication Link Macpherson, G.L., Capo, R.C., Stewart, B.W., Phan, T.T., Schroeder, K., and Hammack, R.W., 2014. Temperature-dependent Li isotope ratios in Appalachian Plateau and Gulf Coast Sedimentary Basin saline water. Geofluids, v. 14, p. 419-429. Publication Link Wall, A.J., Capo, R.C., Stewart, B.W., Phan, T.T., Jain, J.C., Hakala, J.A., and Guthrie, G.D., 2013. High throughput method for Sr extraction from variable matrix waters and 87Sr/86Sr isotope analysis by MC-ICP-MS. Journal of Analytical Atomic Spectrometry, 28, no. 8, p. 1338-1344. Publication Link Professional Associations and Service Geological Society of America American Geophysical Union American Chemical Society Degrees 2012 PhD Environmental and Life Sciences, Trent University, Canada 2007 MEng Environmental and Engineering Management, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand 2004 BEng Chemical Engineering, Ho Chi Minh City - University of Technology, Vietnam Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (43)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3)Staff (1) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
