Chris Yakymchuk | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Chris Yakymchuk Associate Professor, Petrology and Economic GeologyChris Yakymchuk studies howmountain chains formthrough the process of plate tectonics. His research featuresthermodynamic modelling thathighlight processes operating at the micro scale, such as melting. These processes can have a major impact on large scale tectonics in the continental crust. Contact informationOffice: ESC210 Phone: 519-888-4567,ext. 33763Email: cyakymchuk@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Metamorphicpetrology, structural geology and plate tectonicsto understand the evolution of the Earth's continental crust Geochronology - the use of isotopes to date rocks and minerals Orogenesis -the process of mountain formation Research Professor Yakymchuk's research interests lie broadly in understanding the tectonic histories of mountain belts. He is particularly interested in the differences in orogenic processes from the Archean to present and how these differences are manifested in the rock record. Heuses a multidisciplinary approach that applies fieldwork, metamorphic and igneous petrology, structural geology, geochemistry, and geochronology to understand orogenesis and the evolution of the continental crust. He is also interested in fluidrock interactions in the deep crust and applying the principles of igneous and metamorphic petrology to understand the petrogenesis of mineral deposits. Teaching Course offerings have included Earth 471 Mineral DepositsThis course covers the genesis and localization of mineral deposits as well as the theoretical, economic, legal and technical aspects of mineral exploration. This course is designed for undergraduate students in their final year and for both geologists and geological engineers with a variety of backgrounds. Earth 490 Field Course (co-taught with Stephen Evans) Offered in AprilMay. A two week field course for geologists, environmental scientists and geological engineers that explores glacial geology, geological hazards and the tectonic history of the central Andes in Peru. Highlighted Publications Recent publications include Yakymchuk, C.,Brown, M., Brown, C., Siddoway, C.S., Fanning, C.M., Korhonen, F.J.In Press.Paleozoic evolution of western Marie Byrd Land, Antarctica. Geological Society of America Bulletin. doi: 10.1130/B31136.1 Yakymchuk, C.,Brown, M., Clark, C., Korhonen, F.J., Piccoli, P. M., Siddoway, C. S., Taylor, R.J.M. and Vervoort, J. D. 2015. Decoding polyphase migmatites using geochronology and phase equilibria modelling. Journal of Metamorphic Geology. 33: 203230. doi: 10.1111/jmg.12117 Please see Chris Yakymchuk's Google Scholar profile for a current list of his peer-reviewed articles. Awards and Distinctions 2020 Mineralogical Association of Canada Young Scientist Award 2020 Jane Lang Excellence in Earth and Environmental Sciences Teaching Award 2019Ontario Early Researcher Award 2014Young Author of the Year Award, Journal of the Geological Society, London. 2012Best PhD Graduate Talk Award,University of Maryland, Department of Geology. 2011 Jack Henderson Prize for best M.Sc. Thesis. Canadian Tectonics Group.Geological Association of Canada. 2010 W.A. Gorman Teaching Assistant Award. Queens University. 2008 Best Undergraduate Thesis Award. Department of Earth Sciences,Dalhousie University. 2008 Rupert McNeil Award for Best Undergraduate Presentation.Atlantic Geoscience Society 34thColloquium. Media The following news storyhas featured Professor Yakymchuk's research: March 19, 2015 Chris Yakymchuk wins Young Author of the Year Award Degrees 2014 PhDGeology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, United States 2010 MSc Geological Sciences, Queens University, Kingston, Canada 2008 BSc Earth Sciences, Honours, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (43)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3)Staff (1) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
