Stephen G. Evans | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Stephen G. Evans Professor, Geological Engineering Stephen Evans is interested in the occurrence and behavior of natural hazards , with a focus on catastrophic landslides, landslide dams, glacial hazards, and tsunamis As an expert in hazard assessment and risk analysis of these phenomena, his research has taken him to many countries in Europe, North Africa, Asia, and the Americas (including Italy, Russia, Iran, Tajikistan, Algeria, the Philippines, Japan, China, Peru, El Salvador, United States and Canada). Contact informationOffice: ESC 303 Phone: 519-888-4567, ext. 33232Email: sgevans@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Engineering Geology: geology in the design and performance of engineering works Geospatial modelling, advanced remote sensing techniques and the use of Geographical Information Systems (GIS) Hazard assessment and risk analysis of catastrophic natural hazards, especially catastrophic landslides Urban damage systems and life loss in conflict and natural disasters Research Professor Evans is interested in the occurrence and behavior of catastrophic landslides, landslide dams, glacial hazards, tsunami and other natural hazards , hazard assessment (including magnitude and frequency), risk analysis, and natural disasters. Investigation of the 2011 Japan tsunami, has also led to the conceptual development of the architecture and behavior of urban damage systems and related life loss. Recent projects have included an analysis of the largest non-volcanic landslide on Earth at Seymareh (Zagros Mountains, Iran), the analysis of urban damage in the 2011 Tohoku tsunami (Japan), the 1962 and 1970 mass flows from Nevados Huascaran (Andes of Peru), the formation, filling, and subsequent partial draining of Lake Gojal (a rockslide-dammed lake on the Hunza River in northern Pakistan), the geometry of urban damage in conflict in the Middle East. catastrophic landslides in the glacier environment of NW North America (including Mount Meager (British Columbia - 2010), Lituya Mountain (Alaska - 2012), and Lamplugh Glacier (Alaska - 2016) - supported by NSERC Discovery Grant and Grant from Canadian Space Agency the analysis of tsunami hazard on Canada's Pacific Coast. catastrophic landslides in China, including an analysis of the gigantic Daguangbao rockslide, triggered by the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, Sichuan Province (with Professor R. Huang, Chengdu) - supported by Open Fund, Chengdu University of Technology urban damage and civilian life loss in conventional missile attacks investigation of the 2016 twin glacier collapses in western Tibet Teaching Professor Evans teaches both undergraduate and graduate courses. Course offerings in 2016-17 are as follows; EARTH 270: Disasters and Natural Hazards EARTH 438: Engineering Geology EARTH 490: Field Course in Cordillera Blanca, Peru (with Dr. C. Yakymchuk) EARTH 691: Natural Disasters and Risk (Graduate Course) Highlighted Publications Please see Stephen G. Evans' Google Scholar profile for a current list of his peer-reviewed articles. Delaney, K.B. and Evans, S.G. 2015. The 2000 Yigong landslide (Tibetan Plateau), rockslide-dammed lake and outburst flood: review, remote sensing analysis, and process modelling. Geomorphology, 246, 377-393. Evans, S.G. and Delaney, K.B. 2015. Catastrophic mass flows in the mountain glacial environment. In: Haeberli, W. and Whiteman, C.A. (eds.). Snow and Ice-Related Hazards, Risks and Disasters, Elsevier, 563-606. Delaney, K.B. and Evans, S.G. 2017. The evolution (2010-2015) and engineering mitigation of a rockslide-dammed lake (Hunza River, Pakistan); characterisation by analytical remote sensing. Engineering Geology, 220, 65-75. Cuervo, V., Burge, L., Beaugrand, H., Hendershot, M., & Evans, S.G. Downstream geomorphic response of the 2014 Mount Polley Tailings Dam Failure, British Columbia. Proceedings, 4th World Landslide Forum, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 2017, 9 p. Kaab, A., Leinss, S., Gilbert, A., Bhler, Y., Gascoin, S., Evans, S.G., Bartelt, P., Berthier, E., Brun, F., Chao, W-A., Farinotti, D., Gimbert, F., Guo, W., Huggel, C., Kargel, J.S., Leonard, G., Tian, L., Treichler, D., Yao, T. 2018. Massive collapse of two glaciers in western Tibet in 2016 after surge-like instability. Nature Geoscience. Edited books Evans, S.G. and DeGraff, J.V. (Editors) 2002. Catastrophic landslides: effects, occurrences and mechanisms. Geological Society of America Reviews in Engineering Geology, v. 15, 412 p. Evans, S.G. Scarascia-Mugnozza, G., Strom, A.L., and Hermanns, R.L. (Editors) 2006. Landslides from massive rock slope failure. NATO Science Series IV, v. 49, Springer, Dordrecht, 689p. Evans, S.G., Hermanns, R.L., Strom, A.L., and Scarascia-Mugnozza, G. (Editors) 2011. Natural and Artificial Rockslide Dams, Lecture Notes in the Earth Sciences v. 133, Springer, Heidelburg, 642p. Awards and Distinctions 2004 Thomas Roy Award, Canadian Geotechnical Society (Engineering Geology Division) 2001 AEG (Association of Engineering Geologists) Publication Award for best paper in Environmental and Engineering Geosciences 1995 Canadian Geotechnical Society Prize for best paper in Canadian Geotechnical Journal University of WaterlooAffiliations Member, The Water Institute Fellow, Balsillie School of International Affairs, Waterloo Professional Associations and Service Canadian Geotechnical Society Geological Society of America American Geophysical Union International Association of Engineering Geology and Environment Co-edited the volume on Catastrophic Landslides published by the Geological Society of America in 2002 in the series Reviews in Engineering Geology NATO country co-director of a NATO Advanced Research Workshop (ARW) on Massive Rock Slope Failure New Models for Hazard Assessment held in Celano, Italy in June 2002 and lead editor of the book Landslides from Massive Rock Slope Failure published by Springer in the NATO Science Series North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) country co-director of a NATO Advanced Research Workshop (ARW) on The Security of Natural and Artificial Rockslide Dams held in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan in June 2004 and lead editor of the book Natural and Artificial Rockslide Dams to be published by Springer in the NATO Science Series Editorial Board - Frontiers in Earth Science: Geohazards and Georisks Lead Convenor, NSERC Connect Workshop on Landslides in Canada, Harrison Hot Springs, BC, October 2016. Media The following news stories have featured Professor Evans' research: The Atlantic (October 18, 2016) Twin Glacier Collapses in Tibet Degrees 1983 PhD Geology (Engineering Geology), Department of Geology, University of Alberta, Edmonton 1977 MSc (Eng.) Civil Engineering (Soil Mechanics), Department of Civil Engineering, Imperial College, London 1976 MAGeography, Department of Geography, University of British Columbia, Vancouver 1969 BSc (Hons.) Geography (with Geology subsiidiary), Department of Geography, King's College, London Professional Engineer, Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (43)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3)Staff (1) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
