Profile for Anirban Chowdhury at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Anirban Chowdhury People Dr Anirban Chowdhury Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email a.chowdhury@essex.ac.uk Location 5B.536, Colchester Campus Academic support hours Tue 12.00-13.00 Wed 12.00-13.00 Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Biography Dr. Anirban Chowdhury is a Lecturer in Neural Engineering and Robotics, School of ComputerScience and Electronic Engineering (CSEE), University if Essex (UoE) and a member of the Brain-computer interface and Neural Engineering (BCI-NE) Group, and Robotics Group at University of Essex. Prior to the joining at UoE Anirban was a postdoctoral Research Associate at the Northern Ireland Functional Brain Mapping Facility at Ulster University, Northern Ireland, UK. He holds a Ph.D. in Mechatronics from the Centre for Mechatronics at IIT Kanpur, India, M. Tech in Mechatronics from the School of Mechatronics and Robotics at IIEST, Shibpur, India, and B. Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Kalyani Govt. Engineering College, India. He has contributed to two UK-India thematic partnership projects funded by the British Council, UK, and Department of Science and technology in India under grant UKIERI-DST-2013-14/126, DST-UKIERI-2016-17-0128, and DST-UKIERI2016-17-0128. He has also led the successful completion of two clinical trials on post-stroke robot-assisted neuro-rehabilitation, one in India (CTRI/2018/05/013876) and the other in the UK (ISRCTN1313909). His currentresearch interests are in the areas of robotic rehabilitation, brain-computerinterfaces, assistive technologies, human-robot co-operation, and autonomousmobile robotics. He has published several journal papers in the top journals of the field, including transactions and journals of the IEEE and Elsevier. Qualifications Ph.D. Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, (2018) M. Tech Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, (2013) B.Tech Kalyani Govt. Engieering College, (2010) Appointments University of Essex Lecturer(R), School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE), University of Essex (30/8/2019 - present) Research and professional activities Research interests Brain-computer Interfaces Open to supervise Assistive Technology Open to supervise Neurorehabilitation Open to supervise Human-robot Co-operation Open to supervise Autonomous Mobile Robots Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Team Project Challenge (CE101) Control theory and practice (CE269) Group Project (CE903) Group Project (Incorporating a Game Jam) (CE913) Team Project Challenge (CE201) Current supervision Parasto Azizinezhad Degree subject: Computing and Electronic Systems Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Publications Journal articles (12) Gaur, P., Gupta, H., Chowdhury, A., McCreadie, K., Pachori, RB. and Wang, H., (2021). A Sliding Window Common Spatial Pattern for Enhancing Motor Imagery Classification in EEG-BCI. IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement. 70, 1-9 Chatterjee, D., Chowdhury, A., Gavas, R., Sinha, A. and Saha, SK., (2021). Real time estimation of task specific self-confidence level based on brain signals. Multimedia Tools and Applications. 80 (13), 19203-19217 Chowdhury, A. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2021). Clinical Brain-Computer Interface Challenge 2020 (CBCIC at WCCI2020): Overview, methods and results. IEEE Transactions on Medical Robotics and Bionics. 3 (3), 661-670 Gaur, P., Chowdhury, A., McCreadie, K., Pachori, RB. and Wang, H., (2021). Logistic Regression with Tangent Space based Cross-Subject Learning for Enhancing Motor Imagery Classification. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems, 1-1 Chowdhury, A., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2020). Corticomuscular co-activation based hybrid brain-computer interface for motor recovery monitoring. IEEE Access. 8, 174542-174557 Roy, S., Rathee, D., Chowdhury, A., McCreadie, K. and Prasad, G., (2020). Assessing impact of channel selection on decoding of motor and cognitive imagery from MEG data. Journal of Neural Engineering. 17 (5), 056037-056037 Roy, S., Chowdhury, A., McCreadie, K. and Prasad, G., (2020). Deep Learning based Inter-subject Continuous Decoding of Motor Imagery for Practical Brain-Computer Interfaces. Frontiers in Neuroscience. 14, 918- Rathee, D., Chowdhury, A., Meena, YK., Dutta, A., McDonough, S. and Prasad, G., (2019). BrainMachine Interface-Driven Post-Stroke Upper-Limb Functional Recovery Correlates With Beta-Band Mediated Cortical Networks. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering. 27 (5), 1020-1031 Chowdhury, A., Nishad, SS., Meena, YK., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2019). Hand-Exoskeleton Assisted Progressive Neurorehabilitation Using Impedance Adaptation Based Challenge Level Adjustment Method. IEEE Transactions on Haptics. 12 (2), 128-140 Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Meena, YK., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2019). An EEG-EMG Correlation-based Brain-Computer Interface for Hand Orthosis Supported Neuro-Rehabilitation. Journal of Neuroscience Methods. 312, 1-11 Chowdhury, A., Meena, YK., Raza, H., Bhushan, B., Uttam, AK., Pandey, N., Hashmi, AA., Bajpai, A., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2018). Active Physical Practice Followed by Mental Practice Using BCI-Driven Hand Exoskeleton: A Pilot Trial for Clinical Effectiveness and Usability. IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics. 22 (6), 1786-1795 Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Meena, YK., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2018). Online Covariate Shift Detection based Adaptive Brain-Computer Interface to Trigger Hand Exoskeleton Feedback for Neuro-Rehabilitation. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems. 10 (4), 1070-1080 Show all Conferences (10) Raza, H., Chowdhury, A. and Bhattacharyya, S., (2020). Deep Learning based Prediction of EEG Motor Imagery of Stroke Patients' for Neuro-Rehabilitation Application Raza, H., Chowdhury, A., Bhattacharyya, S. and Samothrakis, S., (2020). Single-Trial EEG Classification with EEGNet and Neural Structured Learning for Improving BCI Performance Chowdhury, A., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2019). Can Corticomuscular Coupling be Useful in Designing Hybrid-Brain Robot Interfaces Towards Hand Functional Recovery? Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2017). EEG-EMG based Hybrid Brain Computer Interface for Triggering Hand Exoskeleton for Neuro-Rehabilitation Chowdhury, A., Ansari, S. and Bhaumik, S., (2017). Earthworm like modular robot using active surface gripping mechanism for peristaltic locomotion Chowdhury, AMM., Kashem, FB., Hossan, A. and Hasan, MM., (2017). Brain controlled assistive buzzer system for physically impaired people Meena, YK., Chowdhury, A., Cecotti, H., Wong-Lin, K., Nishad, SS., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2016). EMOHEX: An eye tracker based mobility and hand exoskeleton device for assisting disabled people Hossan, A. and Chowdhury, AMM., (2016). Real time EEG based automatic brainwave regulation by music Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Dutta, A., Nishad, SS., Saxena, A. and Prasad, G., (2015). A Study on Cortico-muscular Coupling in Finger Motions for Exoskeleton Assisted Neuro-Rehabilitation Chowdhury, A., Kumar, J., Majumder, A. and IEEE, (2014). A Solution to Speeding Related Problem in Road Vehicles Using Passive RFID Tags Show all Grants and funding 2020 NeuRestore: Brain Computer Interface driven rehabilitation of upper limb weakness of stroke survivors Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Contact a.chowdhury@essex.ac.uk Location: 5B.536, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: Tue 12.00-13.00 Wed 12.00-13.00 More about me Google Scholar Researchgate Follow me on social media WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
