Profile for Eirina Bourtsoulatze at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Eirina Bourtsoulatze People Dr Eirina Bourtsoulatze Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email e.bourtsoulatze@essex.ac.uk Location 5A.542, Colchester Campus Academic support hours My Academic Support Hours will be 11am-12pm on Friday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE223 course MOODLE page. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Biography I am a Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in machine learning for communications in the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE), University of Essex, UK. I obtained my PhD degree from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (Ecole Polytechnique Fdral de Laussane), Switzerland, in 2013, and my Diploma degree (MSc equivalent) in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece, in 2008. Upon completion of my PhD, I have held senior research positions with the Communications and Distributed Systems group in the Institute of Computer Science, University of Bern, Switzerlan, and the Information Processing and Communications lab in the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Imperial College London, UK. In 2018 I was awarded the highly competitive Marie Curie Individual Fellowship which was hosted by the Information and Communication Engineering group in the Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering at University College London (UCL), UK. My current research focuses on applications of deep neural networks to joint source-channel coding and source rate-distortion optimization for visual data. My general research interests include machine learning, network coding and wireless edge caching for multimedia communications. Appointments University of Essex Lecturer, Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, University of Essex (20/1/2020 - present) Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Signal Processing (CE223) Publications Journal articles (9) Bourtsoulatze, E., Chadha, A., Fadeev, I., Giotsas, V. and Andreopoulos, Y., (2020). Deep Video Precoding. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology. 30 (12), 4913-4928 Maniotis, P., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Thomos, N., (2020). Tile-Based Joint Caching and Delivery of 360 Videos in Heterogeneous Networks. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. 22 (9), 2382-2395 Bi, Y., Chadha, A., Abbas, A., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Andreopoulos, Y., (2020). Graph-Based Spatio-Temporal Feature Learning for Neuromorphic Vision Sensing. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing. 29, 9084-9098 Bourtsoulatze, E., Burth Kurka, D. and Gunduz, D., (2019). Deep Joint Source-Channel Coding for Wireless Image Transmission. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications and Networking. 5 (3), 567-579 Bourtoulatze, E., Thomos, N., Saltarin, J. and Braun, T., (2018). Content-Aware Delivery of Scalable Video in Network Coding Enabled Named Data Networks. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. 20 (6), 1561-1575 Saltarin, J., Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Braun, T., (2017). Adaptive Video Streaming with Network Coding enabled Named Data Networking. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. 19 (10), 2182-2196 Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Frossard, P., (2014). Decoding Delay Minimization in Inter-Session Network Coding. IEEE Transactions on Communications. 62 (6), 1944-1957 Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Frossard, P., (2014). Distributed Rate Allocation in Inter-Session Network Coding. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. 16 (6), 1752-1765 Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Frossard, P., (2013). Reconstruction of Network Coded Sources From Incomplete Datasets. CoRR. abs/1307.7138 Show all Conferences (9) Maniotis, P., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Thomos, N., (2019). Tile-Based Joint Caching and Delivery of 360 Videos in Heterogeneous Networks Saltarin, J., Braun, T., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Thomos, N., (2019). PopNetCod: A Popularity-based Caching Policy for Network Coding enabled Named Data Networking Bi, Y., Chadha, A., Abbas, A., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Andreopoulos, Y., (2019). Graph-Based Object Classification for Neuromorphic Vision Sensing Bourtsoulatze, E., Kurka, DB. and Gunduz, D., (2019). Deep Joint Source-channel Coding for Wireless Image Transmission Bourtsoulatze, E. and Gunduz, D., (2018). Cache-Aided Interactive Multiview Video Streaming in Small Cell Wireless Networks Saltarin, J., Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Braun, T., (2016). NetCodCCN: A network coding approach for content-centric networks Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Frossard, P., (2012). Distributed rate allocation in P2P networks with inter-session network coding Bourtsoulatze, E., Thomos, N. and Frossard, P., (2012). Correlation-aware reconstruction of network coded sources Saltarin, J., Thomos, N., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Frossard, P., (2011). P2P video streaming with inter-session network coding Show all Reports and Papers (1) Maniotis, P., Bourtsoulatze, E. and Thomos, N., (2019). Tile-Based Joint Caching and Delivery of 360 Videos in Heterogeneous Networks Contact e.bourtsoulatze@essex.ac.uk Location: 5A.542, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: My Academic Support Hours will be 11am-12pm on Friday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE223 course MOODLE page. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
