Profile for Saideh Ferdowsi at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Saideh Ferdowsi People Dr Saideh Ferdowsi Senior Research Officer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email s.ferdowsi@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Profile Publications Contact Profile Publications Contact Profile Biography I am a Senior Research Officer working on the POTION project. POTION indicates promoting social interaction through emotional body odours. The Essex team is responsible to develop Bayesian computational models of multi-modal social interaction. Designed model will be used to cover the role of human chemosignals perception in social interactions. Neurophysiological signals such as EEG, behavioural signals such as f-EMG and peripheral physiological activation such as ECG, RESP, EDA will be used to identify the model. I have received my PhD from the University of Surrey in Biomedical signal and Image processing in 2012. During the PhD, I have developed different algorithms to analyse simultaneous EEG and fMRI data. These techniques have been used for different purposes such as artifact removal, feature extraction and data fusion. Before joining Essex in 2019, I was an academic staff in IRAN. My main research interests are biomedical signal and image processing, data fusion, blind source separation and machine/deep learning , for EEG, fMRI and ECG. I have been one of the guest editors of International Journal of Biomedical Imaging and Sensors Journal. I am also reviewer of various conferences and journals such as Neuroimage, Scientific Reports, IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, IEEE Transactions on Neural System and Rehabilitation Engineering, Signal Image and Video Processing, Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, IET signal processing, and IET Image processing. Qualifications PhD University of Surrey, Publications Journal articles (15) Abolghasemi, V., Marzebali, MH. and Ferdowsi, S., (2021). Recursive Singular Spectrum Analysis for Induction Machines Unbalanced Rotor Fault Diagnosis. IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, 1-1 Ghonchi, H., Fateh, M., Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S. and Rezvani, M., (2020). Deep recurrentconvolutional neural network for classification of simultaneous EEGfNIRS signals. IET Signal Processing. 14 (3), 142-153 Ferdowsi, S. and Abolghasemi, V., (2018). Multi layer spectral decomposition technique for ERD estimation in EEG rhythms: An EEGfMRI study. Neurocomputing. 275, 1836-1845 Abolghasemi, V., Chen, M., Alameer, A., Ferdowsi, S., Chambers, J. and Nazarpour, K., (2018). Incoherent Dictionary Pair Learning: Application to a Novel Open-Source Database of Chinese Numbers. IEEE Signal Processing Letters. 25 (4), 472-476 Ferdowsi, S. and Abolghasemi, V., (2018). Simultaneous BOLD detection and incomplete fMRI data reconstruction. Medical & Biological Engineering & Computing. 56 (4), 599-610 Ferdowsi, S. and Abolghasemi, V., (2018). Semiblind Spectral Factorization Approach for Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Quantification. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. 65 (8), 1717-1724 Ferdowsi, S., Sanei, S. and Abolghasemi, V., (2015). A Predictive Modeling Approach to Analyze Data in EEGfMRI Experiments. International Journal of Neural Systems. 25 (01), 1440008-1440008 Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S. and Sanei, S., (2015). Fast and incoherent dictionary learning algorithms with application to fMRI. Signal, Image and Video Processing. 9 (1), 147-158 Abolghasemi, V. and Ferdowsi, S., (2015). EEGfMRI: Dictionary learning for removal of ballistocardiogram artifact from EEG. Biomedical Signal Processing and Control. 18, 186-194 Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V. and Sanei, S., (2015). A new informed tensor factorization approach to EEGfMRI fusion. Journal of Neuroscience Methods. 254, 27-35 Sanei, S., Ferdowsi, S., Nazarpour, K. and Cichocki, A., (2013). Advances in Electroencephalography Signal Processing [Life Sciences]. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. 30 (1), 170-176 Ferdowsi, S., Sanei, S., Abolghasemi, V., Nottage, J. and O'Daly, O., (2013). Removing Ballistocardiogram Artifact From EEG Using Short- and Long-Term Linear Predictor. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. 60 (7), 1900-1911 Sanei, S., Ferdowsi, S., Nazarpour, K. and Cichocki, A., (2013). Advances in Electroencephalography Signal Processing [Life Sciences].. IEEE Signal Process. Mag.. 30, 170-176 Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S. and Sanei, S., (2012). A gradient-based alternating minimization approach for optimization of the measurement matrix in compressive sensing. Signal Processing. 92 (4), 999-1009 Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S. and Sanei, S., (2012). Blind Separation of Image Sources via Adaptive Dictionary Learning. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing. 21 (6), 2921-2930 Show all Conferences (18) Ameri, R., Alameer, A., Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V. and Nazarpour, K., (2021). Classification of Handwritten Chinese Numbers with Convolutional Neural Networks Ghonchi, H., Fateh, M., Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S. and Rezvani, M., (2020). Spatio-temporal deep learning for EEG-fNIRS brain computer interface Ferdowsi, S., Ognibene, D., Foulsham, T., Abolghasemi, V., Li, W. and Citi, L., (2020). Human Chemosignals Modulate Interactions Between Social and Emotional Brain Areas Abolghasemi, V. and Ferdowsi, S., (2017). Singular value thresholding for multi-dimensional data: Application to fMRI and terahertz imaging Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S., Hao Shen, Yaochun Shen and Lu Gan, (2014). Spatio-spectral data reconstruction in terahertz imaging Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V. and Sanei, S., (2013). EEG-FMRI integration using a partially constrained tensor factorization Ferdowsi, S., Sanei, S., Nottage, J., O'Daly, O. and Abolghasemi, V., (2012). A hybrid ICA-Hermite transform for removal of Ballistocardiogram from EEG Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V. and Sanei, S., (2012). Blind separation of ballistocardiogram from EEG via short-and-long-term linear prediction filtering Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S., Makkiabadi, B. and Sanei, S., (2012). Adaptive fusion of dictionary learning and multichannel BSS Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S. and Sanei, S., (2011). Sparse multichannel source separation using incoherent K-SVD method Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V., Makkiabadi, B. and Sanei, S., (2011). A new spatially constrained NMF with application to fMRI Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V. and Sanei, S., (2011). A comparative study of -divergence based NMF techniques for fMRI analysis Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V. and Sanei, S., (2010). A constrained NMF algorithm for bold detection in fMRI Abolghasemi, V., Ferdowsi, S., Makkiabadi, B. and Sanei, S., (2010). On optimization of the measurement matrix for compressive sensing Abolghasemi, V., Sanei, S., Ferdowsi, S., Ghaderi, F. and Belcher, A., (2009). Segmented compressive sensing Ferdowsi, S., Abolghasemi, V., Ahmadyfard, A. and Sanei, S., (2009). An improved eye detection method based on statistical moments Abolghasemi, V., Sanei, S., Ferdowsi, S., Ghaderi, F., Belcher, A. and IEEE, (2009). SEGMENTED COMPRESSIVE SENSING Ferdowsi, S. and Ahmadyfard, A., (2008). Using statistical moments as invariants for eye detection Show all Reports and Papers (1) Ameri, R., Alameer, A., Ferdowsi, S., Nazarpour, K. and Abolghasemi, V., (2020). Classification of Chinese Handwritten Numbers with Labeled Projective Dictionary Pair Learning Contact s.ferdowsi@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus More about me https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=pHPLO_4AAAAJ&hl=en WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
