Profile for Morteza Varasteh at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Morteza Varasteh People Dr Morteza Varasteh Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email m.varasteh@essex.ac.uk Location 5B.523, Colchester Campus Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Biography Morteza Varasteh received his PhD degree in Communications from Imperial College London, London, UK in 2016. In his PhD, information theoretic limits of zero-delay point-to-point transmission techniques have been investigated using tools in analysis, optimization and information theory. He was a research associate in Imperial college London from 2017 to 2019, during which he worked on the EPSRC-funded project "Simultaneous Information-Power Transfer". A number of significant results were achieved during this work, among which was the design of signalling schemes for wireless information-power transmission (WIPT) systems utilizing tools in machine learning, optimization and information theory. The designed signalling schemes are now used in prototyping WIPT systems. He is currently a lecturer (assistant professor) in the Computer Science and Electrical Engineering (CSEE) Department, University of Essex, Colchester Campus, UK. His research interests lie in the general area of information theory, machine learning, statistical learning, wireless communications, optimization theory. Qualifications PhD Imperial College London, MSc Sharif University of Technology, Research and professional activities Research interests Information Theory Open to supervise Statistical Learning Open to supervise Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Reinforcement Learning Open to supervise Wireless Communications Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Mathematics for Computing (CE141) Team Project Challenge (CE201) Computer Security (CE235) Publications Journal articles (10) Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B. and Clerckx, B., (2020). On Capacity-Achieving Distributions for Complex AWGN Channels Under Nonlinear Power Constraints and Their Applications to SWIPT.. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory. 66, 6488-6508 Varasteh, M., Hoydis, J. and Clerckx, B., (2020). Learning to Communicate and Energize: Modulation, Coding, and Multiple Access Designs for Wireless Information-Power Transmission.. IEEE Trans. Commun.. 68, 6822-6839 Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B. and Clerck, B., (2019). SWIPT Signalling over Frequency-Selective Channels with a Nonlinear Energy Harvester: Non-Zero Mean and Asymmetric Inputs. IEEE Transactions on Communications. 67 (10), 7195-7210 Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B. and Clerckx, B., (2019). SWIPT Signaling Over Frequency-Selective Channels With a Nonlinear Energy Harvester: Non-Zero Mean and Asymmetric Inputs.. IEEE Trans. Commun.. 67, 7195-7210 Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B., Simeone, O. and Gunduz, D., (2018). Zero-Delay Source-Channel Coding With a Low-Resolution ADC Front End. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory. 64 (2), 1241-1261 Rassouli, B., Varasteh, M. and Gndz, D., (2018). Gaussian Multiple Access Channels with One-Bit Quantizer at the Receiver. Entropy. 20 (9), 686-686 Rassouli, B., Varasteh, M. and Gndz, D., (2018). Gaussian Multiple Access Channels with One-Bit Quantizer at the Receiver , .. Entropy. 20, 686-686 Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B., Simeone, O. and Gunduz, D., (2017). Zero-Delay Source-Channel Coding With a 1-Bit ADC Front End and Correlated Receiver Side Information. IEEE Transactions on Communications. 65 (12), 5429-5444 Varasteh, M., Gunduz, D. and Tuncel, E., (2016). Zero-Delay Joint Source-Channel Coding in the Presence of Interference Known at the Encoder. IEEE Transactions on Communications. 64 (8), 3311-3322 Varasteh, M. and Behroozi, H., (2012). Optimal HDA Schemes for Transmission of a Gaussian Source Over a Gaussian Channel With Bandwidth Compression in the Presence of an Interference. IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing. 60 (4), 2081-2085 Show all Book chapters (1) Clerckx, B. and Varasteh, M., (2018). Fundamentals of Signal Design for WPT and SWIPT. In: Wireless Information and Power Transfer. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. 17- 37. 9781119476795 Conferences (13) Varasteh, M., Piovano, E. and Clerckx, B., (2019). A Learning Approach to Wireless Information and Power Transfer Signal and System Design Varasteh, M., Hoydis, J. and Clerckx, B., (2019). Learning Modulation Design for SWIPT with Nonlinear Energy Harvester: Large and Small Signal Power Regimes Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B. and Clerckx, B., (2018). Wireless information and power transfer over an AWGN channel: Nonlinearity and asymmetric Gaussian signaling Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B., Joudeh, H. and Clerckx, B., (2018). SWIPT Signalling over Complex AWGN Channels with Two Nonlinear Energy Harvester Models Rassouli, B., Varasteh, M. and Gunduz, D., (2017). Capacity region of a one-bit quantized Gaussian multiple access channel Varasteh, M., Rassouli, B., Simeone, O. and Gunduz, D., (2016). Zero-delay joint source-channel coding with a 1-bit ADC front end and receiver side information Varasteh, M., Simeone, O. and Gunduz, D., (2016). Joint source-channel coding with one-bit ADC front end Varasteh, M., Gunduz, D. and Tuncel, E., (2015). Zero-delay joint source-channel coding in the presence of interference known at the encoder Varasteh, M., Gunduz, D. and Tuncel, E., (2015). Delay limited transmission of a uniform source over an AWGN channel Aguerri, IE., Varasteh, M. and Gunduz, D., (2014). Zero-delay joint source-channel coding Varasteh, M. and Behroozi, H., (2012). Layered hybrid digital-analog coding with correlated interference Varasteh, M. and Behroozi, H., (2011). Optimal HDA codes for sending a Gaussian source over a Gaussian channel with bandwidth compression in the presence of an interference Varasteh, M. and Behroozi, H., (2011). On the transmission of a Gaussian source over an AWGN channel with correlated interference Show all Grants and funding 2020 AND Technology Research KTP Application Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Contact m.varasteh@essex.ac.uk Location: 5B.523, Colchester Campus WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
