Profile for Juntao Yu at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Juntao Yu People Dr Juntao Yu Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email j.yu@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Academic support hours My support hour is 3 - 5 pm on Friday via Zoom. For the meeting link please check the course Moodle page. Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Biography I am a Lecturer at the University of Essex. Before that, I was a post-doctoral researcher at the Queen Mary University of London, working with Professor Massimo Poesio on his five-year DALI project (Disagreements and Language Interpretation, ERC-2015-AdG). I did my PhD at the University of Birmingham, working on out-of-domain dependency parsing. I was supervised by Dr Bernd Bohnet, Professor John Barnden and Dr Mark Lee. My research interests include Deep Learning for NLP, Information Extraction, Coreference Resolution, Conversational AI, Dependency Parsing, Domain Adaptation, Semi-supervised Learning, and Multi-task Learning. Qualifications PhD Computer Science University of Birmingham, (2017) MSc Software Development University of Glasgow, (2013) Appointments University of Essex Lecturer in Natural Language Processing, School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, University of Essex (2021 - present) Other academic Postdoctoral Researcher, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London (2017 - 2021) Research and professional activities Research interests Deep Learning for NLP Open to supervise Information Extraction Open to supervise Coreference Resolution Open to supervise Conversational AI Open to supervise Low Resource Learning Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Information Retrieval (CE306) Information Retrieval (CE706) ICT Systems Integration and Management (CE719) Publications Conferences (17) Yu, J., Moosavi, NS., Paun, S. and Poesio, M., (2021). Stay Together: A System for Single and Split-antecedent Anaphora Resolution. Khosla, S., Yu, J., Manuvinakurike, R., Ng, V., Poesio, M., Strube, M. and Ros, C., (2021). The CODI-CRAC 2021 Shared Task on Anaphora, Bridging, and Discourse Deixis in Dialogue Yu, J., Bohnet, B. and Poesio, M., (2020). Neural Mention Detection. Yu, J., Bohnet, B. and Poesio, M., (2020). Named Entity Recognition as Dependency Parsing. Yu, J. and Poesio, M., (2020). Multitask Learning-Based Neural Bridging Reference Resolution. Yu, J., Moosavi, NS., Paun, S. and Poesio, M., (2020). Free the Plural: Unrestricted Split-Antecedent Anaphora Resolution. Yu, J., Uma, A. and Poesio, M., (2020). A Cluster Ranking Model for Full Anaphora Resolution. Aloraini, A., Yu, J. and Poesio, M., (2020). Neural Coreference Resolution for Arabic Madge, C., Yu, J., Chamberlain, J., Kruschwitz, U., Paun, S. and Poesio, M., (2019). Crowdsourcing and Aggregating Nested Markable Annotations Poesio, M., Chamberlain, J., Paun, S., Yu, J., Uma, A. and Kruschwitz, U., (2019). A Crowdsourced Corpus of Multiple Judgments and Disagreement on Anaphoric Interpretation Madge, C., Yu, J., Chamberlain, J., Kruschwitz, U., Paun, S. and Poesio, M., (2019). Progression in a Language Annotation Game with a Purpose Paun, S., Chamberlain, J., Kruschwitz, U., Yu, J. and Poesio, M., (2018). A Probabilistic Annotation Model for Crowdsourcing Coreference Poesio, M., Grishina, Y., Kolhatkar, V., Moosavi, N., Roesiger, I., Roussel, A., Simonjetz, F., Uma, A., Uryupina, O., Yu, J. and Zinsmeister, H., (2018). Anaphora Resolution with the ARRAU Corpus Yu, J. and Bohnet, B., (2017). Dependency Language Models for Transition-based Dependency Parsing Yu, J., Elkaref, M. and Bohnet, B., (2015). Domain Adaptation for Dependency Parsing via Self-Training Yu, J. and Bohnet, B., (2015). Exploring Confidence-based Self-training for Multilingual Dependency Parsing in an Under-Resourced Language Scenario Pekar, V., Yu, J., El-karef, M. and Bohnet, B., (2014). Exploring Options for Fast Domain Adaptation of Dependency Parsers Show all Contact j.yu@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus Academic support hours: My support hour is 3 - 5 pm on Friday via Zoom. For the meeting link please check the course Moodle page. More about me personal: https://www.juntaoyu.com/ WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
