Profile for Michael Fairbank at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Michael Fairbank People Dr Michael Fairbank Senior Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email m.fairbank@essex.ac.uk Location 3A.535, Colchester Campus Academic support hours Thursdays 2pm-3pm. Use zoom - see CE811 Moodle for the zoom meeting details. Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Qualifications BSc Mathematical Physics (Nottingham University, 1994) MScKnowledge Based Systems(Edinburgh University, 1995) PhD Computer Science (City University London, 2014) Research and professional activities Research interests Neural Networks Open to supervise Adaptive Dynamic Programming + Reinforcement Learning Open to supervise Optimisation Open to supervise Control Theory Open to supervise Financial Forecasting Open to supervise AI in games Open to supervise Current research I have been trying to apply neural networks to control problems. In this problem the spacecraft uses two simple range-finding scanners to look around with and locate the tunnel. A recurrent neural network controls everything here - scanning strategy, memories of scan results, physical control of the spacecraft. Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Game Artificial Intelligence (CE811) Physics-Based Games (CE812) Group Project (Incorporating a Game Jam) (CE913) Current supervision Mahrad Pisheh Var Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy William Voisine Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Chen Chen Thesis title: Stock Market Investment Using Machine Learning Degree subject: Computational Finance Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Previous supervision Piers Williams Thesis title: Artificial Intelligence in Co-Operative Games with Partial Observability Degree subject: Intelligent Games and Game Intelligence Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Awarded date: 14/2/2019 Publications Journal articles (10) Dong, W., Li, S., Fu, X., Li, Z., Fairbank, M. and Gao, Y., (2021). Control of a Buck DC/DC Converter Using Approximate Dynamic Programming and Artificial Neural Networks. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems Part 1: Regular Papers. 68 (4), 1760-1768 Li, S., Won, H., Fu, X., Fairbank, M., Wunsch, DC. and Alonso, E., (2020). Neural-Network Vector Controller for Permanent-Magnet Synchronous Motor Drives: Simulated and Hardware-Validated Results. IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics. 50 (7), 3218-3230 Alonso, E., Fairbank, M. and Mondragon, E., (2015). Back to optimality: a formal framework to express the dynamics of learning optimal behavior. Adaptive Behavior. 23 (4), 206-215 Fu, X., Li, S., Fairbank, M., Wunsch, DC. and Alonso, E., (2015). Training Recurrent Neural Networks With the Levenberg-Marquardt Algorithm for Optimal Control of a Grid-Connected Converter. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. 26 (9), 1900-1912 Li, S., Fairbank, M., Johnson, C., Wunsch, DC., Alonso, E. and Proao, JL., (2014). Artificial Neural Networks for Control of a Grid-Connected Rectifier/Inverter Under Disturbance, Dynamic and Power Converter Switching Conditions. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. 25 (4), 738-750 Fairbank, M., Prokhorov, D. and Alonso, E., (2014). Clipping in Neurocontrol by Adaptive Dynamic Programming. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. 25 (10), 1909-1920 Fairbank, M., Li, S., Fu, X., Alonso, E. and Wunsch, D., (2014). An adaptive recurrent neural-network controller using a stabilization matrix and predictive inputs to solve a tracking problem under disturbances. Neural Networks. 49, 74-86 Fairbank, M., Alonso, E. and Prokhorov, D., (2013). An Equivalence Between Adaptive Dynamic Programming With a Critic and Backpropagation Through Time. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. 24 (12), 2088-2100 Fairbank, M., Alonso, E. and Prokhorov, D., (2012). Simple and fast calculation of the second-order gradients for globalized dual heuristic dynamic programming in neural networks.. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. 23 (10), 1671-1676 Fairbank, M. and Alonso, E., (2012). Efficient calculation of the Gauss-Newton approximation of the Hessian matrix in neural networks.. Neural Computation. 24 (3), 607-610 Show all Book chapters (1) Fairbank, M., Prokhorov, D. and Alonso, E., (2013). Approximating Optimal Control with Value Gradient Learning. In: Reinforcement Learning and Approximate Dynamic Programming for Feedback Control. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.. 142- 161. 9781118104200 Conferences (20) Fairbank, MH. and Tuson, A., A Curvature Primal Sketch Neural Network Recognition System. Venugopal, I., Tollich, J., Fairbank, M. and Scherp, A., (2021). A Comparison of Deep-Learning Methods forAnalysing and Predicting Business Processes Krause, A. and Fairbank, M., (2020). Baseline win rates for neural-network based trading algorithms Volkovas, R., Fairbank, M., Woodward, JR. and Lucas, S., (2020). Practical Game Design Tool: State Explorer Volkovas, R., Fairbank, M., Woodward, JR. and Lucas, S., (2019). Mek: Mechanics Prototyping Tool for 2D Tile-Based Turn-Based Deterministic Games Volkovas, R., Fairbank, M., Woodward, JR. and Lucas, S., (2019). Extracting Learning Curves From Puzzle Games Samothrakis, S., Vodopivec, T., Fairbank, M. and Fasli, M., (2017). Convolutional-Match Networks for Question Answering Doering, J., Fairbank, M. and Markose, S., (2017). Convolutional neural networks applied to high-frequency market microstructure forecasting Fairbank, MH., Volkovas, R. and Perez-Liebana, D., (2017). Diversity maintenance using a population of repelling random-mutation hill climbers Samothrakis, S., Vodopivec, T., Fasli, M. and Fairbank, M., (2016). Match memory recurrent networks Li, S., Fu, X., Alonso, E., Fairbank, M. and Wunsch, DC., (2016). Neural-network based vector control of VSCHVDC transmission systems Li, S., Alonso, E., Fu, X., Fairbank, M., Jaithwa, I. and Wunsch, DC., (2015). Hardware Validation for Control of Three-Phase Grid-Connected Microgrids Using Artificial Neural Networks Li, S., Fu, X., Jaithwa, I., Alonso, E., Fairbank, M. and C. Wunsch, D., (2015). Control of Three-Phase Grid-Connected Microgrids using Artificial Neural Networks Li, S., Fairbank, M., Fu, X., Wunsch, DC. and Alonso, E., (2013). Nested-loop neural network vector control of permanent magnet synchronous motors Alonso, E. and Fairbank, M., (2013). Emergent and Adaptive Systems of Systems Alonso, E., Fairbank, M. and Mondragn, E., (2012). Conditioning for least action Li, S., Wunsch, DC., Fairbank, M. and Alonso, E., (2012). Vector control of a grid-connected rectifier/inverter using an artificial neural network Fairbank, M. and Alonso, E., (2012). The divergence of reinforcement learning algorithms with value-iteration and function approximation Fairbank, M. and Alonso, E., (2012). A comparison of learning speed and ability to cope without exploration between DHP and TD(0) Fairbank, M. and Alonso, E., (2012). Value-gradient learning Show all Grants and funding 2019 Spark EV KTP application Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) 2017 67% The embedding of machine learning and principles of AI technology to deploy a data-driven growth strategy in a sector leading business with a vision to disrupt the insurance industry. Technology STrategy Board 33% The embedding of machine learning and principles of AI technology to deploy a data-driven growth strategy in a sector leading business with a vision to disrupt the insurance industry. Hood Group Ltd 67% - Embedding intelligent systems within an UAV thermographic solar energy inspection platform to reduce UAV weight, performance and flight time Technology STrategy Board 33% - Embedding intelligent systems within an UAV thermographic solar energy inspection platform to reduce UAV weight, performance and flight time Above Surveying Ltd Embedding a Machine Learning capability into the Hood Group Ltd platform. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Embedding a Machine Learning capability into the Hood Group Ltd platform. Hoodgroup Ltd Improved in-pen access free pig weighing University of Essex Improved real time detection of wind-turbine failures - Dicam Technologies University of Essex Create new methods of capturing insight from current and future Preqin datasets by embedding AI and Machine Learning techniques across the unique Preqin investor platform. Prequin Create new methods of capturing insight from current and future Preqin datasets by embedding AI and Machine Learning techniques across the unique Preqin investor platform. Prequin Improved in-pen access free pig weighing University of Essex Improved real time detection of wind-turbine failures - Dicam Technologies University of Essex 2016 Machine Learning for EV Range Calculation Cab4one Limited Contact m.fairbank@essex.ac.uk Location: 3A.535, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: Thursdays 2pm-3pm. Use zoom - see CE811 Moodle for the zoom meeting details. More about me http://csee.essex.ac.uk/acstaff/mhfair/ WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
