Profile for Haider Raza at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Haider Raza People Dr Haider Raza Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email h.raza@essex.ac.uk Location PARKSIDE UNIT C2, Colchester Campus Academic support hours My Academic Support Hour is 11:00 AM - 12:00 O'clock on Monday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE880/882 MOODLE page. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Biography I received the B.Tech. degree in Computer Science & Engineering from the Integral University, India, in 2008, the M.Tech. degree in Computer Engineering from the Manav Rachna International University, India, in 2011, and the PhD degree in computer science from University of Ulster University, Derry~Londonderry, U.K., in 2016. I worked as Postdoctoral Research Assistant at the University of Ulster in Neural Systems and Neuro-technology research team for EEG and MEG-based Brain-Computer Interfaces in 2016. Later, I joined as a Postdoctoral Research Officer in the Farr Institute of Health Informatics Research, Swansea University Medical School, U.K (2016-2017). From Nov-2017, I am working at the University of Essex. Qualifications PhD University of Ulster, (2016) Master of Technology Manav Rachna International University, (2011) Bachelor of Technology Integral University, (2008) Appointments University of Essex Lecturer, School of Computer Science and Electronics Engineering, University of Essex (15/11/2020 - present) IADS Postdoctoral Research Fellow, School of Computer Science and Electronics Engineering, University of Essex (21/11/2017 - 14/11/2020) Other academic Post-Doctorate Research Officer, Medical School, Swansea University (1/7/2016 - 20/11/2017) Research Assistant in Brain-Computer Interfacing, School of Computing and Intelligent Systems, University of Ulster (7/12/2015 - 30/6/2016) Visiting Researcher, Center of Mechantronics, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (6/4/2015 - 16/7/2015) Assistant Professor, School of Computer Science, Dilla University (3/10/2011 - 31/8/2012) Lecturer, Department of Information Technology, Manav Rachna International University (1/7/2009 - 30/9/2011) Research and professional activities Research interests Big Data and Analytics Open to supervise Brain-Computer Interface Open to supervise Deep Learning Key words: Transfer Learning Open to supervise Transfer Learning Key words: Transfer Learning Open to supervise Non-Stationary Learning and Domain Adaptation Key words: Dataset Shift Open to supervise Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Open to supervise EEG and MEG Signal Processing Open to supervise AI in Decision Making for Healthcare Key words: Healthcare Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Team Project Challenge (CE101) An Approachable Introduction to Data Science (CE880) Publications Journal articles (13) Raza, H., Rathee, D., Roy, S. and Prasad, G., (2021). A magnetoencephalography dataset for motor and cognitive imagery-based braincomputer interface. Scientific Data. 8 (1), 120- Bhattacharyya, S., Konar, A., Raza, H. and Khasnobish, A., (2021). Editorial: Brain-Computer Interfaces for Perception, Learning, and Motor Control. Frontiers in Neuroscience. 15, 758104- Raza, H., Rathee, D., Zhou, S-M., Cecotti, H. and Prasad, G., (2019). Covariate shift estimation based adaptive ensemble learning for handling non-stationarity in motor imagery related EEG-based brain-computer interface. Neurocomputing. 343, 154-166 Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Meena, YK., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2019). An EEG-EMG Correlation-based Brain-Computer Interface for Hand Orthosis Supported Neuro-Rehabilitation. Journal of Neuroscience Methods. 312, 1-11 Raza, H., Zhou, S., Todd, S., Christian, D., Merchant, E., Morgan, K., Khanom, A., Hill, R., Lynos, R. and Brophy, S., (2019). Predictors of Objectively Measured Physical Activity in 12 month-Old Infants: A Study of Linked Birth Cohort Data with Electronic Health Records. Pediatric Obesity. 14 (7), e12512-e12512 Devi, SJ., Singh, B. and Raza, H., (2019). Link Prediction Evaluation Using Palette Weisfeiler-Lehman Graph Labelling Algorithm. International Journal of Knowledge and Systems Science. 10 (1), 1-20 Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Meena, YK., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2018). Online Covariate Shift Detection based Adaptive Brain-Computer Interface to Trigger Hand Exoskeleton Feedback for Neuro-Rehabilitation. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems. 10 (4), 1070-1080 Chowdhury, A., Meena, YK., Raza, H., Bhushan, B., Uttam, AK., Pandey, N., Hashmi, AA., Bajpai, A., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2018). Active Physical Practice Followed by Mental Practice Using BCI-Driven Hand Exoskeleton: A Pilot Trial for Clinical Effectiveness and Usability. IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics. 22 (6), 1786-1795 Raza, H., Zhou, S., Hill, R., Lyons, RA. and Brophy, S., (2017). Identification of predictors of objectively measured physical activity in 12-month-old British infants: a machine learning driven study. The Lancet. 390, S74-S74 Rathee, D., Raza, H., Prasad, G. and Cecotti, H., (2017). Current Source Density Estimation Enhances the Performance of Motor-Imagery-Related BrainComputer Interface. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering. 25 (12), 2461-2471 Raza, H., Cecotti, H., Li, Y. and Prasad, G., (2016). Adaptive learning with covariate shift-detection for motor imagery-based braincomputer interface. Soft Computing. 20 (8), 3085-3096 Raza, H., Prasad, G. and Li, Y., (2015). EWMA model based shift-detection methods for detecting covariate shifts in non-stationary environments. Pattern Recognition. 48 (3), 659-669 Singh, B., Raza, H. and Ritu, M., (2010). GBG Approach for Connectivity and Coverage Control in Wireless Sensor Network. International Journal of Computer Applications. 16 (3), 13-18 Show all Book chapters (1) Raza, H. and Rathee, D., (2018). Covariate shift detection-based nonstationary adaptation in motor-imagery-based braincomputer interface. In: Signal Processing and Machine Learning for Brain-Machine Interfaces. Editors: Tanaka, T. and Arvaneh, M., . Institution of Engineering and Technology. 125- 141. 9781785613982 Conferences (17) Barry, E., Jameel, S. and Raza, H., Emojional: Emoji Embeddings Raza, H., Chowdhury, A., Bhattacharyya, S. and Samothrakis, S., (2020). Single-Trial EEG Classification with EEGNet and Neural Structured Learning for Improving BCI Performance Raza, H., Chowdhury, A. and Bhattacharyya, S., (2020). Deep Learning based Prediction of EEG Motor Imagery of Stroke Patients' for Neuro-Rehabilitation Application Raza, H. and Samothrakis, S., (2019). Bagging Adversarial Neural Networks for Domain Adaptation in Non-Stationary EEG Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2017). EEG-EMG based Hybrid Brain Computer Interface for Triggering Hand Exoskeleton for Neuro-Rehabilitation Raza, H., Cecotti, H. and Prasad, G., (2016). A combination of transductive and inductive learning for handling non-stationarities in motor imagery classification Raza, H., Chowdhury, A., Dutta, A. and Prasad, G., (2015). Cortico-Muscular-Coupling and Covariate Shift Adaptation based BCI for Personalized Neuro- Rehabilitation of Stroke Patients Raza, H., Cecotti, H., Li, Y. and Prasad, G., (2015). Learning with Covariate Shift-Detection and Adaptation in Non-Stationary Environments : Application to Brain-Computer Interface Raza, H., Cecotti, H. and Prasad, G., (2015). Optimising Frequency Band Selection with Forward-Addition and Backward-Elimination Algorithms in EEG-based Brain-Computer Interfaces Chowdhury, A., Raza, H., Dutta, A., Nishad, SS., Saxena, A. and Prasad, G., (2015). A Study on Cortico-muscular Coupling in Finger Motions for Exoskeleton Assisted Neuro-Rehabilitation Raza, H., Prasad, G., Li, Y. and Cecotti, H., (2014). Covariate shift-adaptation using a transductive learning model for handling non-stationarity in EEG based brain-computer interfaces Raza, H., Prasad, G., Li, Y. and Cecotti, H., (2014). Toward Transductive Learning Classifiers for Non-Stationary EEG Raza, H., Prasad, G. and Li, Y., (2014). Adaptive Learning with Covariate Shift- Detection for Non-Stationary Environments O Doherty, D., Meena, YK., Raza, H., Cecotti, H. and Prasad, G., (2014). Exploring gaze-motor imagery hybrid brain-computer interface design Raza, H., Prasad, G. and Li, Y., (2013). Dataset shift detection in non-stationary environments using EWMA charts Raza, H., Prasad, G. and Li, Y., (2013). EWMA based two-stage dataset shift-detection in non-stationary environments Raza, H., Nandal, P. and Makker, S., (2010). Selection of cluster-head using PSO in CGSR protocol Show all Grants and funding 2020 Unravelling the Forest Fires in Lower Himalayan Forests: A Comprehensive Study of Indian Forest Regions of Uttarakhand using IoT technology University of Essex (GCRF) Two-Way Visiting Fellowship with Indian colleague University of Essex (GCRF) Check4Cancer skin cancer AI model Check4Cancer Mersea Homes KTP application Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) 2019 The development of a new CPD tracker using AI and embedded machine learning to track and enhance performance of all staff. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) AI-Assisted Decision-Making System for Cancer Pathways of the Colchester Hospital East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust Maji - AI powered chatbot Maji Financial Wellbeing Ltd 2018 Business and Local Government Data Research Centre (BLG DRC) Economic and Social Research Council Provide KTP 2018 Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Contact h.raza@essex.ac.uk Location: PARKSIDE UNIT C2, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: My Academic Support Hour is 11:00 AM - 12:00 O'clock on Monday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE880/882 MOODLE page. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. More about me My teaching and research: http://sagihaider.com/ Google Scholar Follow me on social media WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
