Profile for David Richerby at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr David Richerby People Dr David Richerby Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email david.richerby@essex.ac.uk Location 5A.536, Colchester Campus Academic support hours Monday 1530-1730 Zoom ID: 962 5348 0595 Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Qualifications PhD University of Cambridge, (2003) Appointments University of Essex Lecturer, Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, University of Essex (1/10/2019 - present) Research and professional activities Research interests Algorithms Design and analysis of algorithms, typically to solve discrete combinatorial problems. I'm particularly interested in counting problems, where we wish to know how many solutions exist (e.g., how many different values for the variables make a given Boolean formula true). Many of these problems are computationally intractable, so approximation algorithms play an important role. Open to supervise Computational complexity theory Classification of problems according to their level of computational difficulty. I'm particularly interested in dichotomy theorems, which show that, depending on a certain parameter, a problem will either be relatively easy or extremely hard, with no middle ground. Open to supervise Constraint satisfaction problems Constraint satisfaction problems ask if it is possible to assign values to given variables, while satisfying given constraints for example, to assign rooms and times to lectures without having two classes in the same room at the same time or requiring students to attend two classes at the same time. I'm also interested in variants, such as graph homomorphisms and M-partitions of graphs. Open to supervise Stochastic processes Particularly the Moran process, which models the random spread of genetic mutations through geographically structured populations. Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Object-Oriented Programming (CE152) Data Structures and Algorithms (CE204) Publications Journal articles (12) Blume, T., Richerby, D. and Scherp, A., (2021). FLUID: A common model for semantic structural graph summaries based on equivalence relations. Theoretical Computer Science. 854, 136-158 Goldberg, LA., Lapinskas, J. and Richerby, D., (2021). Faster Exponential-time Algorithms for Approximately Counting Independent Sets. Theoretical Computer Science. 892, 48-84 Goldberg, L., Lapinskas, J. and Richerby, D., (2020). Phase transitions of the Moran process and algorithmic consequences. Random Structures and Algorithms. 56 (3), 597-647 Bulatov, A., Goldberg, LA., Jerrum, M., Richerby, D. and ivn, S., (2017). Functional clones and expressibility of partition functions. Theoretical Computer Science. 687, 11-39 Galanis, A., Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA., Lapinskas, J. and Richerby, D., (2017). Amplifiers for the Moran Process. Journal of the ACM. 64 (1), 1-90 Dyer, M., Goldberg, LA. and Richerby, D., (2016). Counting 4x4 matrix partitions of graphs. Discrete Applied Mathematics. 213, 76-92 Daz, J., Goldberg, LA., Richerby, D. and Serna, M., (2016). Absorption time of the Moran process. Random Structures and Algorithms. 49 (1), 137-159 Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA. and Richerby, D., (2016). Counting Homomorphisms to Square-Free Graphs, Modulo 2. ACM Transactions on Computation Theory. 8 (3), 1-29 Chen, X., Dyer, M., Goldberg, LA., Jerrum, M., Lu, P., McQuillan, C. and Richerby, D., (2015). The complexity of approximating conservative counting CSPs. Journal of Computer and System Sciences. 81 (1), 311-329 Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA., McQuillan, C., Richerby, D. and Yamakami, T., (2015). Counting List Matrix Partitions of Graphs. SIAM Journal on Computing. 44 (4), 1089-1118 Daz, J., Goldberg, LA., Mertzios, GB., Richerby, D., Serna, M. and Spirakis, PG., (2014). Approximating Fixation Probabilities in the Generalized Moran Process. Algorithmica. 69 (1), 78-91 Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA. and Richerby, D., (2014). The complexity of counting homomorphisms to cactus graphs modulo 2. ACM Transactions on Computation Theory. 6 (4), 1-29 Show all Conferences (7) Blume, T., Richerby, D. and Scherp, A., (2020). Incremental and Parallel Computation of Structural Graph Summaries for Evolving Graphs Galanis, A., Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA., Lapinskas, J. and Richerby, D., (2016). Amplifiers for the Moran process Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA. and Richerby, D., (2015). Counting homomorphisms to square-free graphs, modulo 2 Daz, J., Goldberg, LA., Richerby, D. and Serna, M., (2014). Absorption time of the Moran process Gobel, A., Goldberg, LA., McQuillan, C., Richerby, D. and Yamakami, T., (2014). Counting List Matrix Partitions of Graphs Gbel, A., Goldberg, LA. and Richerby, D., (2014). Counting homomorphisms to cactus graphs modulo 2 Dyer, ME. and Richerby, DM., (2010). On the complexity of #CSP Show all Contact david.richerby@essex.ac.uk Location: 5A.536, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: Monday 1530-1730 Zoom ID: 962 5348 0595 WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
