Profile for Javier Andreu-Perez at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Javier Andreu-Perez People Dr Javier Andreu-Perez Senior Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email javier.andreu@essex.ac.uk Location 5B.542, Colchester Campus Academic support hours 2.30-3.30pm Thursday (4285295445) Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Biography Dr Andreu-Perez is a British-Spanish computer scientist. At Essex, he is currently Senior Lecturer (tenured) in Human-Centred Artificial Intelligence at the Centre for Computational Intelligence. He chairs the Smart Health Technologies Group at the centre. He holds a PhD in Intelligent Systems from Lancaster University (Bowland College), an MEng in Computer Science and an MSc in Software Engineering from Granada. Prior to joining UoE, Javier held research staff positions at Imperial College London and Lancaster University. He has also been visiting academic fellow of the Faculty of Health (St Mary's Hospital) at Imperial College London. He has contributed to a number of research projects funded by the EU, NHS, the UKs Ministry of Defence (MoD), as well as the industry. Javier's fundamental science research is actively supported by UK Governmental agencies, foundations, trust and charities. He is a Senior Member of the IEEE Society in Computational Intelligence, has co-edited special issues in the area and published highly cited papers in top journals and conferences in the area of artificial intelligence, health informatics. His research work has been licensed by UK FTSE companies such as GlaxoSmithKline plc. Furthermore, he actively participates in knowledge transfer programs with SMEs to help UK companies to innovate. These companies are from a wide range of domains such as vehicle engineering, robotics, IoT, health and big data analytics. Beyond the financial benefits, Javier also contributes to the analysis and discussion of Responsible AI frameworks for intelligent systems that can collaborate with humans in a meaningful and safe way. Javier serves as an editorial board member of prestigious journals in artificial intelligence (AI). He regularly chairs special sessions at renowned world conferences (IEEE-FUZZ and WCCI). He is currently leading an International scientific IEEE Task Force on uncertainty models for computing with words. He actively participates in public engagement activities such as open days, showcases and professional gatherings from other disciplines. His main research focus is fundamental research questions of artificial intelligence, machine learning and their applications in engineering, bioengineering, health informatics, human-robot interaction, computer vision, smart sensing & industrial informatics. Favourite quote: Everything is theoretically impossible, until it is done. Robert A. Heinlein. Qualifications PhD In Intelligent Systems Lancaster University, Appointments University of Essex Senior Lecturer, School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, University of Essex (1/10/2019 - present) Other academic Research scientist, Department of Computing, Imperial College London (1/12/2012 - 1/12/2017) Research and professional activities Research interests Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning Key words: Artificial Intelligence Reasoning and Modeling Systems in Diagnosis and Prognosis Key words: Artificial Intelligence Health Informatics Key words: Health informatics Computational Intelligence applied to Brain Sciences Key words: Computational Intelligence Neuroergonomics and Neuromarketing Key words: Artificial Intelligence Computer Vision and Machine Perception Industrial Informatics Open to supervise Deep Learning Architectures Conferences and presentations Competition Chair for Clinical BCI Challenge Invited presentation, IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence (WCCI), 19/7/2020 Chair Special Session of Fuzzy Systems for Brain Sciences and Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCI) under uncertainty Invited presentation, IEEE World Congres on Computational Intelligence 2020, 19/1/2020 Keynote on Developing fine-grained actigraphys for rheumatoid arthritis patient Keynote presentation, 1st Digital Rheumatoid Arthritis, Lausanne, Switzerland, 1/2/2019 Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Introduction to Databases (CE153) Current supervision Abbas Salami Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Mehrin Kiani Thesis title: Explainable Artificial Intelligence for Functional Brain Development Analysis: Methods and Applications. Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Mariha Tahsin Thesis title: Micro and Macro Indexes of Economic Activity: Multiple Indicators and Multiple Methods Using Bangladesh as a Test Case Degree subject: Economics Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Publications Journal articles (29) Filippetti, ML., Andreu, J., Rigato, S. and De Klerk, C., Investigating the effects of stimulus presentation design on infant fNIRS data using a general linear model (GLM) and multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) based approach. NeuroImage Filippetti, ML., Andreu, J., De Klerk, C. and Rigato, S., Are advanced methods necessary to improve infant fNIRS data analysis? An assessment of baseline-corrected averaging, general linear model (GLM) and multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) based approaches. NeuroImage Andreu-Perez, J., Perez-Espinosa, H., Timonet, E., Kiani, M., Manuel I. Girn-Prez and Benitez, A., A Generic Deep Learning Based Cough Analysis System from Clinically Validated Samples for Point-of-Need Covid-19 Test and Severity Levels Andreu-Perez, J., Developing Fine-Grained Actigraphies for Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients from a Single Accelerometer Using Machine Learning Gupta, A., Agrawal, RK., Kirar, JS., Andreu-Perez, J., Ding, W-P., Lin, C-T. and Prasad, M., (2021). On the Utility of Power Spectral Techniques With Feature Selection Techniques for Effective Mental Task Classification in Noninvasive BCI. IEEE Transactions on Systems Man and Cybernetics: Systems. 51 (5), 3080-3092 Andreu-Perez, J. and Kiani, M., (2021). Single-Trial Recognition of Video Gamers Expertise from Brain Haemodynamic and Facial Emotion Responses. Brain Sciences. 11 (1), 106-106 Andreu-Perez, J., Perez-Espinosa, H., Timonet, E., Kiani, M., Giron-Perez, MI., Benitez-Trinidad, AB., Jarchi, D., Rosales, A., Gkatzoulis, N., Reyes-Galaviz, OF., Torres, A., Alberto Reyes-Garcia, C., Ali, Z. and Rivas, F., (2021). A Generic Deep Learning Based Cough Analysis System from Clinically Validated Samples for Point-of-Need Covid-19 Test and Severity Levels. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, 1-1 Ranjbar, E., Menhaj, MB., Suratgar, AA., Andreu-Perez, J. and Prasad, M., (2021). Design of a fuzzy PID controller for a MEMS tunable capacitor for noise reduction in a voltage reference source. SN Applied Sciences. 3 (6) Gupta, PK., Sharma, D. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2021). Enhanced Linguistic Computational Models and Their similarity with Yagers Computing with Words. Information Sciences. 574, 259-278 Ranjbar, E., Menhaj, MB., Suratgar, AA., Andreu-Perez, J. and Prasad, M., (2021). Modern control design for MEMS tunable capacitors in voltage reference applications: a comparative study. International Journal of Dynamics and Control Andreu-Perez, J., Emberson, LL., Kiani, M., Filippetti, ML., Hagras, H. and Rigato, S., (2021). Explainable Artificial Intelligence Based Analysis for Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience. Communications Biology. 4 (1), 1077- Perez-Espinosa, H., Timonet-Andreu, E. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2021). Bias and privacy in AI's cough-based COVID-19 recognition. The Lancet Digital Health. 3 (12), e760-e760 Chowdhury, A. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2021). Clinical Brain-Computer Interface Challenge 2020 (CBCIC at WCCI2020): Overview, methods and results. IEEE Transactions on Medical Robotics and Bionics. 3 (3), 661-670 Akshansh, G., R. K., A., Jyoti Singh, K., Baljeet, K., Weiping, D., Chin-Teng, L., Andreu-Perez, J. and Mukesh, P., (2020). A Hierarchical Meta-model for Multi-Class Mental Task Based Brain-Computer Interfaces. Neurocomputing. 389, 207-217 Andreu-Perez, J., (2020). Fuzzy learning and its applications in neural-engineering. Neurocomputing. 389, 196-197 Kiani, M., Andreu-Perez, J., Hagras, H., Papageorgiou, EI., Prasad, M. and Lin, C-T., (2020). Effective Brain Connectivity for fNIRS with Fuzzy Cognitive Maps in Neuroergonomics. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems, 1-1 Jarchi, D., Andreu-Perez, J., Kiani, M., Vysata, O., Kuchynka, J., Prochazka, A. and Sanei, S., (2020). Recognition of Patient Groups with Sleep Related Disorders using Bio-signal Processing and Deep Learning. Sensors. 20 (9), 2594-2594 Salami, A., Andreu-Perez, J. and Gillmeister, H., (2020). Symptoms of depersonalisation/derealisation disorder as measured by brain electrical activity: A systematic review. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews. 118, 524-537 Andreu-Perez, J., Cao, F., Hagras, H. and Yang, G., (2018). A Self-Adaptive Online Brain Machine Interface of a Humanoid Robot through a General Type-2 Fuzzy Inference System. IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems. 26 (1), 101-116 Ravi, D., Wong, C., Deligianni, F., Berthelot, M., Andreu-Perez, J., Lo, B. and Yang, G-Z., (2017). Deep Learning for Health Informatics. IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics. 21 (1), 4-21 Andreu-Perez, J., Garcia-Gancedo, L., McKinnell, J., Van der Drift, A., Powell, A., Hamy, V., Keller, T. and Yang, G-Z., (2017). Developing Fine-Grained Actigraphies for Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients from a Single Accelerometer Using Machine Learning. Sensors. 17 (9), 2113-2113 Andreu-Perez, J., Leff, DR., Shetty, K., Darzi, A. and Yang, G-Z., (2016). Disparity in Frontal Lobe Connectivity on a Complex Bimanual Motor Task Aids in Classification of Operator Skill Level. Brain Connectivity. 6 (5), 375-388 Andreu-Perez, J., Solnais, C. and Sriskandarajah, K., (2016). EALab (Eye Activity Lab): a MATLAB Toolbox for Variable Extraction, Multivariate Analysis and Classification of Eye-Movement Data. Neuroinformatics. 14 (1), 51-67 Andreu-Perez, J., Leff, DR., Ip, HMD. and Yang, G-Z., (2015). From Wearable Sensors to Smart Implants-Toward Pervasive and Personalized Healthcare. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. 62 (12), 2750-2762 Andreu-Perez, J., Poon, CCY., Merrifield, RD., Wong, STC. and Yang, G-Z., (2015). Big Data for Health. IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics. 19 (4), 1193-1208 Solnais, C., Andreu-Perez, J., Snchez-Fernndez, J. and Andru-Abela, J., (2013). The contribution of neuroscience to consumer research: A conceptual framework and empirical review. Journal of Economic Psychology. 36, 68-81 Andreu, J. and Angelov, P., (2013). An evolving machine learning method for human activity recognition systems. Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing. 4 (2), 195-206 Sadeghi-Tehran, P., Andreu, J., Angelov, P. and Zhou, X., (2011). Intelligent leader-follower behaviour for unmanned ground-based vehicles. Journal of Automation Mobile Robotics and Intelligent Systems. 5, 36-46 Andru, J. and Holgado, JA., (2004). Wireless Sensor Networks applied to Ambient Assisted-Living Environments Show all Book chapters (2) Yang, G., Andreu-Perez, J., Hu, X. and Thiemjarus, S., (2014). Multi-sensor fusion. In: Body sensor networks. Springer. 301- 354 Andru, J. and Holgado, JA., (2008). Ambient Assisted-Living Platforms: The Real Issue, Challenges and Technologies Conferences (34) Reddy, TK., Wang, Y-K., Lin, C-T. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2021). JOINT APPROXIMATE DIAGONALIZATION DIVERGENCE BASED SCHEME FOR EEG DROWSINESS DETECTION BRAIN COMPUTER INTERFACES Sharma, D., Gupta, PK., Andreu-Perez, J., Mendel, JM. and Lopez, LM., (2021). A Python Software Library for Computing with Words and Perceptions Rozman, J., Hagras, H., Andreu-Perez, J., Clarke, D., Muller, B. and Fitz, S., (2021). A Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Explainable AI Approach for the Easy Calibration of AI models in IoT Environments Cortez, S., Flores, C. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2020). Improving Speller BCI performance using a cluster-based under-sampling method Salami, A., Andreu-Perez, J. and Gillmeister, H., (2020). Towards Decoding of Depersonalisation Disorder Using EEG: A Time Series Analysis Using CDTW Malik, A., de Frein, R., Al-Zeyadi, M. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2020). Intelligent SDN Traffic Classification Using Deep Learning: Deep-SDN Cortez, SA., Flores Vega, C. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2020). Under-sampling and Classification of P300 Single-Trials using Self-Organized Maps and Deep Neural Networks for a Speller BCI Cortez, SA., Flores, C. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2020). Single-trial P300 classification using deep belief networks for a BCI system Kiani, M., Andreu-Perez, J., Hagras, H., Filippetti, ML. and Rigato, S., (2020). A Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Explainable Artificial Intelligence System for Developmental Neuroscience Al-Zeyadi, M., Andreu-Perez, J., Hagras, H., Royce, C., Smith, D., Rzonsowski, P. and Malik, A., (2020). Deep Learning Towards Intelligent Vehicle Fault Diagnosis Rozman, J., Hagras, H., Andreu-Perez, J., Clarke, D., Muller, B. and Data, SF., (2020). Privacy-Preserving Gesture Recognition with Explainable Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Systems Cortez, SA., Flores, C. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2020). A Smart Home Control Prototype Using a P300-Based BrainComputer Interface for Post-stroke Patients Kiani, M., Andreu-Perez, J., Hagras, H., Andreu, AR., Pinto, M., Andreu, J., Reddy, P. and Izzetoglu, K., (2019). Towards Gamers Experience Level Decoding with Optical Brain Imaging Achanccaray, D., Mylonas, G. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2019). An Implicit Brain Computer Interface Supported by Gaze Monitoring for Virtual Therapy Achanccaray, D., Flores, C., Fonseca, C. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2018). A Fuzzy Genetic Algorithm for Optimal Spatial Filter Selection for P300-Based Brain Computer Interfaces Flores, C., Fonseca, C., Achanccaray, D. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2018). Performance Evaluation of a P300 Brain-Computer Interface Using a Kernel Extreme Learning Machine Classifier Flores, C., Flores, V., Achanccaray, D. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2018). A Convolutional Neural Network Approach for a P300-based Brain-Computer Interface for Disabled and Healthy Subjects Achanccaray, D., Flores, C., Fonseca, C. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2017). A P300-based brain computer interface for smart home interaction through an ANFIS ensemble Kiani, M., Andreu-Perez, J. and Papageorgiou, EI., (2017). Improved estimation of effective brain connectivity in functional neuroimaging through higher order fuzzy cognitive maps Achanccaray, D., Acuna, K., Carranza, E. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2017). A virtual reality and brain computer interface system for upper limb rehabilitation of post stroke patients Pacheco, K., Acuna, K., Carranza, E., Achanccaray, D. and Andreu-Perez, J., (2017). Performance predictors of motor imagery brain-computer interface based on spatial abilities for upper limb rehabilitation Kiani, M., Andreu-Perez, J., Leff, DR., Darzi, A. and Yang, GZ., (2014). Shedding Light on Surgeons' Cognitive Resilience: A Novel Method of Topological Analysis for Brain Networks Angelov, P., Andreu, J. and Vuong, T., (2012). Automatic mobile photographer and picture diary Sadeghi-Tehran, P., Behera, S., Angelov, P. and Andreu, J., (2012). Autonomous visual self-localization in completely unknown environment Andreu, J., Baruah, RD. and Angelov, P., (2011). Real time recognition of human activities from wearable sensors by evolving classifiers Andreu, J., Baruah, RD. and Angelov, P., (2011). Automatic scene recognition for low-resource devices using evolving classifiers Baruah, RD., Angelov, P. and Andreu, J., (2011). Simpl_eClass: simplified potential-free evolving fuzzy rule-based classifiers Baruah, RD., Angelov, P., Andreu, J. and IEEE, (2011). Simpl_eClass: Simplified Potential-free Evolving Fuzzy Rule-Based Classifiers Andreu, J. and Angelov, P., (2010). Real-time human activity recognition from wireless sensors using evolving fuzzy systems Andreu, J. and Angelov, P., (2010). Forecasting time-series for NN GC1 using Evolving Takagi-Sugeno (eTS) Fuzzy Systems with on-line inputs selection Andru, J., Videz, J. and Holgado, JA., (2009). An ambient assisted-living architecture based on wireless sensor networks Prez, JA., lvarez, JA., Fernndez-Montes, A. and Ortega, JA., (2009). Service-oriented device integration for ubiquitous ambient assisted living environments Andru, J., Viudez, J. and Holgado, J., (2008). A Survey of Wireless Sensor Networks Videz, J., Andru, J. and Holgado, JA., (2008). An OSGi Experience for Home Automation Applications Show all Reports and Papers (1) Andreu-Perez, J., Deligianni, F., Ravi, D. and Yang, G-Z., Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Other (1) Andreu, J. and Angelov, P., (2013).Towards generic human activity recognition for ubiquitous applications. Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing. 4(2),Springer Grants and funding 2021 Copy me, copy you: Investigating the development of facial mimicry in infancy Bial Foundation Contact javier.andreu@essex.ac.uk Location: 5B.542, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: 2.30-3.30pm Thursday (4285295445) More about me Personal Web Page: http://andreuperez.net/ Follow me on social media WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
