Salma Karray, MSc, PhD | Faculty of Business and Information Technology About Dean's welcome Alumni Success FBIT Alumni Steering Committee FBIT Alumni Newsletter We want to hear from you! Learning Environment EON Reality iCube (CAVE) Finance Laboratory Gaming and Virtual Reality Laboratory Hacker Research Laboratory Health Informatics Laboratory Security, Artificial Intelligence, and Networks Lab (SAIN Lab) Laboratory for Games and Media Entertainment Research Marketing Laboratory Networking Laboratory Advanced Networking Technology and Security (ANTS) Research Lab Human Machine Lab UXR Lab - Applied User Experience Research Lab for Interactive Media Business Analytics Laboratory Contact Undergraduate Bachelor of Commerce Accounting Accounting program map Courses Career Opportunities Ontario Tech Accounting Community Finance Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Finance program map Ontario Tech Finance Community Marketing Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Marketing program map Ontario Tech Marketing Community Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources Management Faculty Student awards Student Association Internship OBHR program map Technology Management Technology management program map Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Tech Management Community Commerce Pathways program (Advanced Entry and Bridge) Admission requirements Commerce pathways program - advanced entry Admission requirements Undergraduate Program Maps Bachelor of Information Technology Game Development and Interactive Media Gaming and Virtual Reality Laboratory Academic information Examples of student work Program maps Career Opportunities Courses Laboratories Outreach Partnerships and Strategic Alliances Success Stories Ontario Tech Game Dev community Examples of Student Work Networking and Information Technology Security Networking Laboratory Academic information Program maps Career Opportunities Ontario Tech Networking Community Information Technology Pathways program Game Development and Entrepreneurship Major - Bridge Networking and IT Security major Direct-entry and Bridge Pathways Commerce Pathways program (Advanced Entry and Bridge) Admission requirements Commerce pathways program - advanced entry Admission requirements Technology Management Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Technology Management Community Admission requirements Undergraduate Program Maps Bachelor of Information Technology Academic Support Registration FAQs Electives Get Involved Ontario Tech Women in IT Ontario Tech Women in Business BITSOC Ontario Tech Game Development Student Association NETSOC OTFA Ontario Tech Accounting Association OTMA Ontario Tech Human Resource Association DECA Game Sound Club Game Programming Club Technology Management Student Association First-Year Zone First- Year Academic Advisor First-year Program Maps FBIT Orientation Graduate Master of Information Technology Security (MITS) Admission requirements Program maps Master of Information Technology Security Artificial Intelligence in Security Field (MITS-AIS) Admission requirements Program maps Master of Business Analytics and AI (MBAI) Curriculum and Courses Master of Health Sciences in Health Informatics Admission requirements Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science Admission requirements Graduate Diploma in Accounting Learning environment Graduate Studies Viewbook Graduate Academic Calendar Graduate Faculty People Faculty research Researcher profiles Labs, Groups and Institutes Research seminars Research support Experiential learning Capstone program FAQs Capstone Showcase Become a Capstone Employer COVID-19 Tech Relief Drive Internship program Internship testimonials International students Supervisor evaluation form Tips and FAQs Job Search Assistance Employer Information Industry Placements and Entrepreneurship Venture Creation Showcase International Education Outbound student exchanges Inbound student exchanges and short study Summer study abroad THE QUEEN ELIZABETH II DIAMOND JUBILEE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM (QES) Information session dates & announcements Follow our students adventures Internationalization Strategy International internships Our team Conf-IRM 2022 Skip to main content COVID-19 information and screening Learn how were keeping our campus community safe, healthy and engaged during our gradual return to campus. Note: The universitys mandatory vaccine directive is now in effect. Learn more about vaccine requirements. Ontario Tech acknowledges the lands and people of the Mississaugas of Scugog Island First Nation. We are thankful to be welcome on these lands in friendship. The lands we are situated on are covered by the Williams Treaties and are the traditional territory of the Mississaugas, a branch of the greater Anishinaabeg Nation, including Algonquin, Ojibway, Odawa and Pottawatomi. These lands remain home to many Indigenous nations and peoples. We acknowledge this land out of respect for the Indigenous nations who have cared for Turtle Island, also called North America, from before the arrival of settler peoples until this day. Most importantly, we acknowledge that the history of these lands has been tainted by poor treatment and a lack of friendship with the First Nations who call them home. This history is something we are all affected by because we are all treaty people in Canada. We all have a shared history to reflect on, and each of us is affected by this history in different ways. Our past defines our present, but if we move forward as friends and allies, then it does not have to define our future. Learn more about Indigenous Education and Cultural Services Search the: Search the directory Website Directory Search directory Apply Donate Crisis Centre Contact us Campus map Campus tours Campus virtual tour Career opportunities Contact information Faculty and Staff Directory Services and information Accessibility Bookstore Brand Central Faculty and staff IT services Library Service disruptions Safety and security Campus emergencies Campus safety Health and Safety Mental health Sexual violence support and education Students Academic Calendar Canvas MyCampus Ridgebacks Student email Quick links Ontario Tech home page Faculty of Business and Information Technology Search About Dean's welcome Alumni Success FBIT Alumni Steering Committee FBIT Alumni Newsletter We want to hear from you! Learning Environment EON Reality iCube (CAVE) Finance Laboratory Gaming and Virtual Reality Laboratory Hacker Research Laboratory Health Informatics Laboratory Security, Artificial Intelligence, and Networks Lab (SAIN Lab) Laboratory for Games and Media Entertainment Research Marketing Laboratory More in Learning Environment Contact Undergraduate Bachelor of Commerce Accounting Accounting program map Courses Career Opportunities Ontario Tech Accounting Community Finance Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Finance program map Ontario Tech Finance Community Marketing Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Marketing program map Ontario Tech Marketing Community Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources Management Faculty Student awards Student Association Internship OBHR program map Technology Management Technology management program map Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Tech Management Community Commerce Pathways program (Advanced Entry and Bridge) Admission requirements Commerce pathways program - advanced entry Admission requirements Undergraduate Program Maps More in Bachelor of Commerce Bachelor of Information Technology Game Development and Interactive Media Gaming and Virtual Reality Laboratory Academic information Examples of student work Program maps Career Opportunities Courses Laboratories Outreach More in Game Development and Interactive Media Networking and Information Technology Security Networking Laboratory Academic information Program maps Career Opportunities Ontario Tech Networking Community Information Technology Pathways program Game Development and Entrepreneurship Major - Bridge Networking and IT Security major Direct-entry and Bridge Pathways Commerce Pathways program (Advanced Entry and Bridge) Admission requirements Commerce pathways program - advanced entry Admission requirements Technology Management Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Technology Management Community Admission requirements Undergraduate Program Maps Bachelor of Information Technology Academic Support Registration FAQs Electives Get Involved Ontario Tech Women in IT Ontario Tech Women in Business BITSOC Ontario Tech Game Development Student Association NETSOC OTFA Ontario Tech Accounting Association OTMA More in Get Involved First-Year Zone First- Year Academic Advisor First-year Program Maps FBIT Orientation Graduate Master of Information Technology Security (MITS) Admission requirements Program maps Master of Information Technology Security Artificial Intelligence in Security Field (MITS-AIS) Admission requirements Program maps Master of Business Analytics and AI (MBAI) Curriculum and Courses Master of Health Sciences in Health Informatics Admission requirements Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science Admission requirements Graduate Diploma in Accounting Learning environment Graduate Studies Viewbook Graduate Academic Calendar More in Graduate People Faculty research Researcher profiles Labs, Groups and Institutes Research seminars Research support Experiential learning Capstone program FAQs Capstone Showcase Become a Capstone Employer COVID-19 Tech Relief Drive Internship program Internship testimonials International students Supervisor evaluation form Tips and FAQs Job Search Assistance Employer Information Industry Placements and Entrepreneurship Venture Creation Showcase International Education Outbound student exchanges Inbound student exchanges and short study Summer study abroad THE QUEEN ELIZABETH II DIAMOND JUBILEE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM (QES) Information session dates & announcements Follow our students adventures Internationalization Strategy International internships More in International Education Our team Conf-IRM 2022 Menu Home People Marketing Salma Karray, MSc, PhD Salma Karray MSc, PhD Professor Marketing Faculty of Business and Information Technology LinkedIn Research Gate Contact information Business and Information Technology Building - Room 4032 North Oshawa 2000 Simcoe Street North Oshawa, ON L1G 0C5 905.721.8668 ext. 2832 salma.karray@ontariotechu.ca google.scholar.com Research topics operations research and marketing interface supply chain management retailing and channel management marketing mix effectiveness marketing decision models movie marketing marketing analytics applications of artificial intelligence in business Background Dr. Salma Karray is a Professor and Associate Dean, Research at the Faculty of Business and Information Technology. She received her Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) from IHEC in Tunisia, and both her MSc and PhD in Business Administration from HEC Montreal in Canada. An expert in quantitative analysis of business strategies with a focus on marketing and supply chain management, Dr. Karray uses advanced optimization and data analytics techniques to help businesses improve their performance and strive in a competitive environment. Her research includes developing advanced mathematical models to determine the best strategies for pricing, promotion, distribution, and advertising. She is also researching co-operation strategies, i.e. agreements between companies who may be competing and collaborating simultaneously, and loyalty programs design (reward expiry and redemption policies). Her research also explores the return on investment of marketing decisions for movies such as promotional tie-ins and trailer advertising. Recently, her research has expanded to include artificial intelligence applications in marketing and consumer studies. Dr. Karray has collaborated with national and international researchers and students from different fields and backgrounds in business, engineering, mathematics and computer science. Her research has been published in leading journals in the field of management science and operations research such as OMEGA, the International Journal of Management Science, the European Journal of Operational Research and the International Journal of Production Economics and in Business such as the Journal of Business Research and the International Journal of Advertising Research. Dr. Karray has received several awards from the National Sciences and Research Council of Canada (NSERC), the Quebec Funds for Research on Society and Culture (FQRSC), and MITACS to enhance student research opportunities globally. Appointed Adjunct Professor at the University of Waterloo and at Ryerson University, she works with graduate and undergraduate students at these universities and at the University of Ontario Institute of Technology. She has been invited on several occasions to present her research at national and international universities and conferences. Dr. Karray is an active reviewer for many leading journals in her field and for tri-council funding agencies (SSHRC and NSERC). She is a member of many professional societies including the Institute for Marketing Science, The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS), the American Marketing Association, the Canadian Operational Research Society (CORS) and the Production and Operations Management Society (POMS). In the classroom, Dr. Karray teaches her students to develop rigorous marketing strategies that rely on science rather than solely on intuition to improve business outcomes. She teaches marketing strategy, marketing research,and marketing channels courses. Education Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) HEC Montreal, Quebec Master of Science (MSc) HEC Montreal, Quebec, (Honours Roll) Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) Institut des Hautes Etudes Commerciales (IHEC) Carthage, Tunisia Involvement Peer-reviewed journal publications Salma Karray and Guiomar Martn-Herrn (2019). Fighting store brands through the strategic timing of pricing and advertising decisions. European Journal of Operational Research 275 (2), 635-647. Amirhossein Bazargan, Saeed Zolfaghari and Salma Karray (2019). Should competing firms offer Buy n times, get one free loyalty programs? A game-theoretic analysis. Journal of the Operational Research Society, 1-20. Pietro De Giovanni, Salma Karray and Guiomar Martn-Herrn (2019). Vendor management inventory with consignment contracts and the benefits of cooperative advertising, European Journal of Operational Research, 272 (2), 465-480. Salma Karray and Simon Pierre Sigu (2018). Offline retailers expanding online to compete with manufacturers: Strategies and channel power. Industrial Marketing Management, 71, 203-214. Salma Karray and Simon Pierre Sigu (2018). Informational and/or transactional websites: Strategic choices in a distribution channel. Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, 27, 11-22. Amirhossein Bazargan, Salma Karray and Saeed Zolfaghari (2018). 'Buy n times, get one free' loyalty cards: Are they profitable for competing firms? A game theoretic analysis, European Journal of Operational Research, 265 (2), 621-630. Salma Karray and Simon Pierre Sigu (2017). Joint advertising of complementary products sold through an independent retailer. International Journal of Production Research, DOI: 10.1080/00207543.2017.1399224. Amirhossein Bazargan, Salma Karray and Saeed Zolfaghari (2017). Modeling reward expiry for loyalty programs in a competitive market. International Journal of Production Economics, 193, 352-364. Salma Karray, Guiomar Martn-Herrn and Georges Zaccour (2017). Assessing the profitability of cooperative advertising programs in competing channels. International Journal of Production Economics, 187, 142158. Punya Chatterjee, Salma Karray and Simon Pierre Sigu (2017). Cooperative advertising programs: Are accrual constraints necessary? International Journal of Transactions in Operational Research, DOI:10.1111/itor.12431. Salma Karray, Guiomar Martn-Herrn and Simon Pierre Sigu (2017). Cooperative advertising for competing manufacturers: The impact of long-term promotional effects. International Journal of Production Economics, 184, 21-32. Salma Karray and Lidia Debernitz (2017). The effectiveness of movie trailer advertising. International Journal of Advertising, 36(2), 368-392. Salma Karray and Simon Pierre Sigu (2016). Should companies jointly promote their complementary products when they compete in other product categories? European Journal of Operational Research, 255(2), 620-630. Salma Karray and Chirag Surti (2016). Channel coordination with quantity discounts and/or cooperative advertising. International Journal of Production Research, 54(17), 5317-5335. Salma Karray and Simon Pierre Sigu (2015). A game-theoretic model for co-promotions: choosing a complementary versus an independent product ally. Omega, the International Journal of Management Science, 54, 84-100. Salma Karray (2015). Cooperative promotions in the distribution channel. Omega, the International Journal of Management Science, 51, 49-58. Salma Karray and Saman Amin (2015). Cooperative advertising in a supply chain with retail competition. International Journal of Production Research, 53(1), 88-105. Salma Karray (2015). Modeling brand advertising with heterogeneous consumer response; channel implications. Annals of Operations Research, 233(1), 181-199. Salma Karray (2013). Periodicity of pricing and marketing efforts in a distribution channel. European Journal of Operational Research, 228(3), 635-647. Salma Karray (2011). Effectiveness of retail joint promotions under different channel structures. European Journal of Operational Research, 210(3), 745-751. Salma Karray and Guiomar Martn-Herrn (2009). A dynamic model for advertising and pricing competition between national and store brands. European Journal of Operational Research, 193(2), 451-467. Salma Karray and Guiomar Martn-Herrn (2008). Investigating the relationship between advertising and pricing in a channel with private label offering: a theoretic model. Review of Marketing Science, 6, 1. Simon Pierre Sigu and Salma Karray (2007). Price competition during and after promotions. Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences, 24(2), 80-93. Salma Karray and Georges Zaccour (2007). Effectiveness of coop advertising programs in competitive distribution channels. International Game Theory Review, 9(2), 151-167. Salma Karray and Georges Zaccour (2006). Could co-op advertising be a manufacturer's counterstrategy to store brands?Journal of Business Research, 59(9), 1008-1015. Book chapters and conference papers Salma Karray and Simon-Pierre Sigu (2018). Informational or/and transactional websites: Strategic choices in a distribution channel, AMA winter educator conference. Salma Karray, Kamal Smimou and Bharat L. Sud (2015). Tie-in promotions in the motion picture industry: An empirical study. In: Kubacki K. (eds) Ideas in Marketing: Finding the New and Polishing the Old. Developments in Marketing Science: Proceedings of the Academy of Marketing Science. Springer, Cham. Salma Karray and Simon-Pierre Sigu (2014). A game-theoretic model for co-promotions: choosing a complementary versus an independent product ally, Administrative Sciences Association of Canada (ASAC) Conference. Chirag Surti and Salma Karray (2014). Dual coordination in supply chains, Eighteenth International Working Seminars on Production Economics Proceedings. Salma Karray (2013). Modeling brand advertising with heterogeneous consumer response; channel implications, POMS Conference Proceedings, Denver (USA). Lidia Debernitz and Salma Karray (2012). Effect of trailer advertising on the financial performance of the associated movie; an event study, European Marketing Conference. Salma Karray (2009). Joint promotions in channels, Third Workshop on Game Theory in Marketing Conference Proceedings (CD-ROM), Montreal (Canada). Simon-Pierre Sigu and Salma Karray (2006). Pricing and Sales Promotion Dynamic Competition in a Duopoly, Extended Abstract, Administrative Sciences Association of Canada (ASAC) Conference Proceedings. Salma Karray and Georges Zaccour (2005). A differential game of advertising for national and store brands, inDynamic Games: Theory and Applications, Kluwer Academic Publishers. Selected invited seminars Research seminar series, Group for Research in Decision Analysis (GERAD), Canada, 2016. Production and Operations Management Conference (special session), USA, 2015. American Marketing Association summer Conference (special session), USA, 2014. Marketing seminar series, McMaster University, Canada, 2013. Management sciences seminar series, University of Waterloo, Canada, 2012. Marketing Science Conference (special session), Germany, 2010. Workshop on Game Theory in Marketing Channels, HEC Montreal, Canada, 2009. INFORMS Young Researcher Connection, INFORMS Practice Conference, USA, 2008. International Society in Dynamic Games Workshop, Spain, 2005. Game Theory in Marketing Workshop, HEC Montreal, Canada, 2005. University of Valladolid, Spain, 2005. Marketing Science Doctoral Consortium, The Netherlands, 2004. About Dean's welcome Alumni Success FBIT Alumni Steering Committee FBIT Alumni Newsletter We want to hear from you! Learning Environment EON Reality iCube (CAVE) Finance Laboratory Gaming and Virtual Reality Laboratory Hacker Research Laboratory Health Informatics Laboratory Security, Artificial Intelligence, and Networks Lab (SAIN Lab) Laboratory for Games and Media Entertainment Research Marketing Laboratory Networking Laboratory Advanced Networking Technology and Security (ANTS) Research Lab Human Machine Lab UXR Lab - Applied User Experience Research Lab for Interactive Media Business Analytics Laboratory Contact Undergraduate Bachelor of Commerce Accounting Accounting program map Courses Career Opportunities Ontario Tech Accounting Community Finance Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Finance program map Ontario Tech Finance Community Marketing Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Marketing program map Ontario Tech Marketing Community Organizational Behaviour and Human Resources Management Faculty Student awards Student Association Internship OBHR program map Technology Management Technology management program map Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Tech Management Community Commerce Pathways program (Advanced Entry and Bridge) Admission requirements Commerce pathways program - advanced entry Admission requirements Undergraduate Program Maps Bachelor of Information Technology Game Development and Interactive Media Gaming and Virtual Reality Laboratory Academic information Examples of student work Program maps Career Opportunities Courses Laboratories Outreach Partnerships and Strategic Alliances Success Stories Ontario Tech Game Dev community Examples of Student Work Networking and Information Technology Security Networking Laboratory Academic information Program maps Career Opportunities Ontario Tech Networking Community Information Technology Pathways program Game Development and Entrepreneurship Major - Bridge Networking and IT Security major Direct-entry and Bridge Pathways Commerce Pathways program (Advanced Entry and Bridge) Admission requirements Commerce pathways program - advanced entry Admission requirements Technology Management Courses Laboratories Career Opportunities Technology Management Community Admission requirements Undergraduate Program Maps Bachelor of Information Technology Academic Support Registration FAQs Electives Get Involved Ontario Tech Women in IT Ontario Tech Women in Business BITSOC Ontario Tech Game Development Student Association NETSOC OTFA Ontario Tech Accounting Association OTMA Ontario Tech Human Resource Association DECA Game Sound Club Game Programming Club Technology Management Student Association First-Year Zone First- Year Academic Advisor First-year Program Maps FBIT Orientation Graduate Master of Information Technology Security (MITS) Admission requirements Program maps Master of Information Technology Security Artificial Intelligence in Security Field (MITS-AIS) Admission requirements Program maps Master of Business Analytics and AI (MBAI) Curriculum and Courses Master of Health Sciences in Health Informatics Admission requirements Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science Admission requirements Graduate Diploma in Accounting Learning environment Graduate Studies Viewbook Graduate Academic Calendar Graduate Faculty People Faculty research Researcher profiles Labs, Groups and Institutes Research seminars Research support Experiential learning Capstone program FAQs Capstone Showcase Become a Capstone Employer COVID-19 Tech Relief Drive Internship program Internship testimonials International students Supervisor evaluation form Tips and FAQs Job Search Assistance Employer Information Industry Placements and Entrepreneurship Venture Creation Showcase International Education Outbound student exchanges Inbound student exchanges and short study Summer study abroad THE QUEEN ELIZABETH II DIAMOND JUBILEE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM (QES) Information session dates & announcements Follow our students adventures Internationalization Strategy International internships Our team Conf-IRM 2022 Help Contact us Terms of use Website feedback Accessibility Connect Career opportunities Faculty experts Media inquiries Services for employers Visit Campus buildings Campus map Campus tours Campus virtual tour Info About Ontario Tech Governance Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 2000 Simcoe Street NorthOshawa, Ontario L1G 0C5Canada 905.721.8668 Ontario Tech University is the brand name used to refer to the University of Ontario Institute of Technology. University of Ontario Institute of Technology . Ontario Tech and Design, and Tech with a Conscience are Official Marks of Ontario Tech University. Top
