Profile for Spyros Samothrakis at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Clearing Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Careers and employability Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Business expertise Knowledge Transfer Partnerships Knowledge Gateway Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Governance and strategy Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Graduation Departments Centres and Institutes News Essex Sport Arena Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Spyros Samothrakis People Dr Spyros Samothrakis Senior Lecturer (R) and Deputy Director of IADS School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email ssamot@essex.ac.uk Location PARKSIDE BLOCK C2, Colchester Campus Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Grants and funding Contact Profile Qualifications 2014, PhD Computer Science,University of Essex 2007, MSc Intelligent Systems, University of Sussex 2003, BSc Computer Science, University of Sheffield Research and professional activities Research interests Reinforcement Learning Open to supervise Machine Learning Open to supervise Neural Networks Open to supervise Role Playing Games Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Navigating the Digital World (CS220) Current supervision Husam Malek Zaki Quteineh Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Konstantinos Bonikos Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Master of Science (by Dissertation) Balgyn Zaurbekova Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Master of Philosophy Damian Machlanski Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Mahrad Pisheh Var Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Previous supervision Mohammed Ali A Alshahrani Thesis title: Exploring Embedding Vectors for Emotion Detection Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Awarded date: 16/11/2020 Umar Isyaku Abdullahi Degree subject: Advanced Computer Science Degree type: Master of Science Awarded date: 5/10/2016 Publications Journal articles (20) Dwivedi, YK., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., Duan, Y., Dwivedi, R., Edwards, J., Eirug, A., Galanos, V., Ilavarasan, PV., Janssen, M., Jones, P., Kar, AK., Kizgin, H., Kronemann, B., Lal, B., Lucini, B., Medaglia, R., Le Meunier-FitzHugh, K., Le Meunier-FitzHugh, LC., Misra, S., Mogaji, E., Sharma, SK., Singh, JB., Raghavan, V., Raman, R., Rana, NP., Samothrakis, S., Spencer, J., Tamilmani, K., Tubadji, A., Walton, P. and Williams, MD., (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and policy. International Journal of Information Management. 57, 101994-101994 Hernandez, D., Denamganai, K., Devlin, S., Samothrakis, S. and Walker, JA., (2021). A Comparison of Self-Play Algorithms Under a Generalized Framework. IEEE Transactions on Games. abs/2006.04471, 1-1 Samothrakis, S., (2021). Artificial Intelligence inspired methods for the allocation of common goods and services.. PLoS One. 16 (9), e0257399-e0257399 Samothrakis, S., (2020). Open Loop In Natura Economic Planning. CoRR. abs/2005.01539 Salge, C., Short, E., Preuss, M., Samothrakis, S. and Spronck, P., (2020). Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Live Action Role-Playing Games (LARP). 2020 IEEE Conference on Games (CoG). 2020-August, 612-619 Samothrakis, S., (2018). Viewpoint: Artificial Intelligence and Labour. Proceedings of the Twenty-Seventh International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence. 2018-July, 5652-5655 Samothrakis, S., (2018). Kathryn E. Merrick: Computational models of motivation for game-playing agents: Springer, 2016, 213 pp, ISBN: 978-3-319-33457-8. Genetic Programming and Evolvable Machines. 19 (4), 567-568 Samothrakis, S., (2018). Kathryn E. Merrick: Computational models of motivation for game-playing agents - Springer, 2016, 213 pp, ISBN: 978-3-319-33457-8.. Genet. Program. Evolvable Mach.. 19, 567-568 Samothrakis, S., Fasli, M., Perez, D. and Lucas, S., (2017). Default policies for global optimisation of noisy functions with severe noise. Journal of Global Optimization. 67 (4), 893-907 Tom Vodopivec, Samothrakis, S. and Brank Ster, (2017). On monte carlo tree search and reinforcement learning. The Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research. 60, 881-936 Samothrakis, S., Perez, D., Lucas, SM. and Rohlfshagen, P., (2016). Predicting Dominance Rankings for Score-Based Games. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. 8 (1), 1-12 Perez-Liebana, D., Samothrakis, S., Togelius, J., Schaul, T., Lucas, SM., Couetoux, A., Lee, J., Lim, C-U. and Thompson, T., (2016). The 2014 General Video Game Playing Competition. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. 8 (3), 229-243 Perez, D., Mostaghim, S., Samothrakis, S. and Lucas, SM., (2015). Multiobjective Monte Carlo Tree Search for Real-Time Games. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. 7 (4), 347-360 Samothrakis, S. and Fasli, M., (2015). Emotional Sentence Annotation Helps Predict Fiction Genre. PLoS One. 10 (11), e0141922-e0141922 Perez, D., Powley, EJ., Whitehouse, D., Rohlfshagen, P., Samothrakis, S., Cowling, PI. and Lucas, SM., (2014). Solving the Physical Traveling Salesman Problem: Tree Search and Macro Actions. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. 6 (1), 31-45 Perez, D., Togelius, J., Samothrakis, S., Rohlfshagen, P. and Lucas, SM., (2014). Automated Map Generation for the Physical Traveling Salesman Problem. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation. 18 (5), 708-720 Samothrakis, S., Lucas, S., Runarsson, T. and Robles, D., (2013). Coevolving Game-Playing Agents: Measuring Performance and Intransitivities. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation. 17 (2), 213-226 Friston, K., Samothrakis, S. and Montague, R., (2012). Active inference and agency: optimal control without cost functions. Biological Cybernetics. 106 (8-9), 523-541 Browne, CB., Powley, E., Whitehouse, D., Lucas, SM., Cowling, PI., Rohlfshagen, P., Tavener, S., Perez, D., Samothrakis, S. and Colton, S., (2012). A Survey of Monte Carlo Tree Search Methods. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. 4 (1), 1-43 Samothrakis, S., Robles, D. and Lucas, S., (2011). Fast Approximate Max-n Monte Carlo Tree Search for Ms Pac-Man. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games. 3 (2), 142-154 Show all Book chapters (1) Samothrakis, S., Perez, D. and Lucas, S., (2019). Training Gradient Boosting Machines Using Curve-Fitting and Information-Theoretic Features for Causal Direction Detection. In: Cause Effect Pairs in Machine Learning. Editors: . Springer International Publishing. 331- 338. 978-3-030-21809-6 Conferences (29) Raza, H., Chowdhury, A., Bhattacharyya, S. and Samothrakis, S., (2020). Single-Trial EEG Classification with EEGNet and Neural Structured Learning for Improving BCI Performance Quteineh, H., Samothrakis, S. and Sutcliffe, R., (2020). Textual Data Augmentation for Efficient Active Learning on Tiny Datasets Salge, C., Short, E., Preuss, M., Samothrakis, S. and Spronck, P., (2020). Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Live Action Role-Playing Games (LARP). Abdullahi, UI., Samothrakis, S. and Fasli, M., (2020). Causal Inference with Correlation Alignment Raza, H. and Samothrakis, S., (2019). Bagging Adversarial Neural Networks for Domain Adaptation in Non-Stationary EEG Rajalingam, VR. and Samothrakis, S., (2019). Neuroevolution Strategies for Word Embedding Adaptation in Text Adventure Games Hernandez, D., Denamganai, K., Gao, Y., York, P., Devlin, S., Samothrakis, S. and Walker, JA., (2019). A Generalized Framework for Self-Play Training Sankarpandi, SK., Samothrakis, S., Citi, L. and Brady, P., (2019). Active learning without unlabeled samples: generating questions and labels using Monte Carlo Tree Search Alshahrani, M., Samothrakis, S. and Fasli, M., (2019). Identifying idealised vectors for emotion detection using CMA-ES Samothrakis, S., (2018). Viewpoint: Artificial Intelligence and Labour. Samothrakis, S., Vodopivec, T., Fairbank, M. and Fasli, M., (2017). Convolutional-Match Networks for Question Answering Alshahrani, M., Samothrakis, S. and Fasli, M., (2017). Word mover's distance for affect detection Abdullahi, U., Samothrakis, S. and Fasli, M., (2017). Counterfactual domain adversarial training of neural networks Abdullahi, UI., Samothrakis, S., Fasli, M. and IEEE, (2017). Counterfactual Domain Adversarial Training of Neural Networks Alshahrani, M., Samothrakis, S., Fasli, M. and IEEE, (2017). Word Mover's Distance for Affect Detection Perez-Liebana, D., Samothrakis, S., Togelius, J., Lucas, SM. and Schaul, T., (2016). General video game AI: Competition, challenges, and opportunities Samothrakis, S., Vodopivec, T., Fasli, M. and Fairbank, M., (2016). Match memory recurrent networks Perez-Liebana, D., Samothrakis, S., Togelius, J., Schaul, T. and Lucas, SM., (2016). Analyzing the robustness of general video game playing agents Samothrakis, S., Perez-Liebana, D., Lucas, SM. and Fasli, M., (2015). Neuroevolution for General Video Game Playing Lucas, SM., Samothrakis, S. and Prez, D., (2014). Fast Evolutionary Adaptation for Monte Carlo Tree Search Perez, D., Powley, E., Whitehouse, D., Samothrakis, S., Lucas, S. and Cowling, PI., (2014). The 2013 Multi-objective Physical Travelling Salesman Problem Competition Perez, D., Samothrakis, S. and Lucas, S., (2014). Knowledge-based fast evolutionary MCTS for general video game playing Samothrakis, S., Roberts, SA., Perez, D. and Lucas, SM., (2014). Rolling horizon methods for games with continuous states and actions Perez, D., Samothrakis, S., Lucas, S. and Rohlfshagen, P., (2013). Rolling horizon evolution versus tree search for navigation in single-player real-time games Perez, D., Samothrakis, S. and Lucas, S., (2013). Online and offline learning in multi-objective Monte Carlo Tree Search Ashlock, D., Ashlock, W., Samothrakis, S., Lucas, S. and Lee, C., (2012). From competition to cooperation: Co-evolution in a rewards continuum Samothrakis, S. and Lucas, S., (2011). Approximating n-player behavioural strategy nash equilibria using coevolution Samothrakis, S., Rob, D. and Lucas, SM., (2010). A UCT agent for Tron: Initial investigations Samothrakis, S. and Lucas, SM., (2010). Planning using online evolutionary overfitting Show all Reports and Papers (1) Fairbank, M., Samothrakis, S. and Citi, L., (2020). Deep Learning in Target Space Grants and funding 2021 G's Growers KTP Application Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Cancer Pathways Mid and South Essex NHS Foundation Trust 2020 PREQIN KTP2 Application - March 2020 resubmission Preqin KTP 2 2019 The Research Centre on Micro-Social Change (MiSoC) Economic and Social Research Council The development of a new CPD tracker using AI and embedded machine learning to track and enhance performance of all staff. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Orbital Media IV (EIRA) Orbital Media & Advertising Ltd The Research Centre on Micro-Social Change (MiSoC) Economic and Social Research Council The Research Centre on Micro-Social Change (MiSoC) Economic and Social Research Council 2018 Discovering Individual and Social Preferences through Inverse Reinforcement Learning Economic and Social Research Council Develop AI methods to optimise interactions with customers. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) 2017 The project investigates the use of algorithms (genetic + reinforcement) to provide accurate forecasts of asset prices. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) Embedding a Machine Learning capability into the Hood Group Ltd platform. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) IAA ECC Challenge Lab project - Community inclusion Catalyst Project (HEFCE Funding) Create new methods of capturing insight from current and future Preqin datasets by embedding AI and Machine Learning techniques across the unique Preqin investor platform. Prequin Create new methods of capturing insight from current and future Preqin datasets by embedding AI and Machine Learning techniques across the unique Preqin investor platform. Prequin The project investigates the use of algorithms (genetic + reinforcement) to provide accurate forecasts of asset prices. Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) To embed a NLP capability in Objective IT Innovate UK (formerly Technology Strategy Board) 2016 67% Embedding an innovative application of advanced data mining, data analytics and data visualisation to exploit the growth potential of the UK's leading insight platform for professional services firms Technology STrategy Board 33% Embedding an innovative application of advanced data mining, data analytics and data visualisation to exploit the growth potential of the UK's leading insight platform for professional services firms Mondaq Ltd 67% - The design and development of a scalable, avatar based, digital healthcare platform, driven by AI and Machine Learning technology. Technology STrategy Board 33% - The design and development of a scalable, avatar based, digital healthcare platform, driven by AI and Machine Learning technology. Orbital Media & Advertising Ltd. Scoping Exercise for new data product Hood Group Ltd 2015 67% - To extend the business intelligence and digital marketing offer by developing and embedding a new data analytics capability Technology STrategy Board 33% - To extend the business intelligence and digitial marketing offer by developing and embedding a new data analytics capability Objective Computing Ltd Contact ssamot@essex.ac.uk Location: PARKSIDE BLOCK C2, Colchester Campus WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2021 University of Essex. All rights reserved
