Professor Bill Kapralos Bill Kapralos (BSc Hons., MSc, Ph.D) Associate Professor Software Informatics Research Centre Ontario Tech University 2000 Simcoe Street North Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. L1H 7K4. Office: SIRC 4383 Phone: 905-721-8668 x2882 Email: firstname.lastname@uoit.ca Bio Bill Kapralos is an Associate Professor at the University of Ontario Institute of Technology, an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Engineering and Computer Science at York University (Toronto, Canada), and an Honourable Guest Professor at Shizuoka University (Hamamatsu, Japan). He is also the Technical Lead of the Collaborative Human Immersive Interaction Laboratory (CHISIL), a collaborative laboratory examining the application of virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed realities in clinical, medical, and patient education in the perioperative period. His current research interests include: immersive technologies, serious gaming, multi-modal virtual environments/simulation/reality, the perception of auditory events, and 3D (spatial) sound generation. He has led several large interdisciplinary and international medical-based virtual simulation/serious gaming research projects with funding from a variety of government and industry sources. He has been invited to speak on the topic of immersive technologies, virtual simulation, and serious gaming for medical education at numerous international events including a keynote presentation at the Healthcare Simulation Network (SIM-one) SIM Expo in Toronto (Nov. 30, 2017), and a keynote presentation at the IEEE International Conference on Interactive Mobile Communication, Technologies and Learning, San Diego (Oct. 17, 2016). At the invitation of the Federal Republic of Germany, he took part in the week-long "Electronic Start-Up: Industry 4.0 in Germany, Country of Innovation", Visitors Programme in August 2016. He is currently leading the serious gaming theme within the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) Interactive and Multi-Modal Experience Research Syndicate (IMMERSe) initiative. Bill chaired the 2014 IEEE Games, Entertainment, and Media (GEM) conference, and the ACM FuturePlay International Conference on the Future of Game Design and Technology from 2007-2010. He co-chaired the 2015 IEEE GEM conference, and the ACM Virtual Reality Software and Technology Conference in 2012. He is a past recipient of an IBM Centres for Advanced Studies Faculty Award, a past co-recipient of a Google Faculty Award, a past recipient of a Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) and Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) Fellowship to conduct research in Japan, and a recent recipient of an Australian Government 2018 Endeavour Executive Fellowship to conduct research in Australia. Publications Awards and Honors Teaching Research CV
