Faisal Qureshi | Computer Science Computer Science at Ontario Tech Why Computer Science? Career Relevant Learning Student Success Stories Undergraduate Experiential Learning Student Clubs & Societies Academic advising Graduate Fields & Research Areas Seminars People Undergraduate Faculty Graduate Faculty Associate Graduate Faculty Research Skip to main content COVID-19 information and screening Learn how were keeping our campus community safe, healthy and engaged during our gradual return to campus. Note: The universitys mandatory vaccine directive is now in effect. Learn more about vaccine requirements. Ontario Tech acknowledges the lands and people of the Mississaugas of Scugog Island First Nation. We are thankful to be welcome on these lands in friendship. The lands we are situated on are covered by the Williams Treaties and are the traditional territory of the Mississaugas, a branch of the greater Anishinaabeg Nation, including Algonquin, Ojibway, Odawa and Pottawatomi. These lands remain home to many Indigenous nations and peoples. We acknowledge this land out of respect for the Indigenous nations who have cared for Turtle Island, also called North America, from before the arrival of settler peoples until this day. Most importantly, we acknowledge that the history of these lands has been tainted by poor treatment and a lack of friendship with the First Nations who call them home. This history is something we are all affected by because we are all treaty people in Canada. We all have a shared history to reflect on, and each of us is affected by this history in different ways. Our past defines our present, but if we move forward as friends and allies, then it does not have to define our future. Learn more about Indigenous Education and Cultural Services Search the: Search the directory Website Directory Search directory Apply Donate Crisis Centre Contact us Campus map Campus tours Campus virtual tour Career opportunities Contact information Faculty and Staff Directory Services and information Accessibility Bookstore Brand Central Faculty and staff IT services Library Service disruptions Safety and security Campus emergencies Campus safety Health and Safety Mental health Sexual violence support and education Students Academic Calendar Canvas MyCampus Ridgebacks Student email Quick links Ontario Tech home page Computer Science Search Computer Science at Ontario Tech Why Computer Science? Career Relevant Learning Student Success Stories Undergraduate Experiential Learning Student Clubs & Societies Academic advising Graduate Fields & Research Areas Seminars People Undergraduate Faculty Graduate Faculty Associate Graduate Faculty Research Menu Home People Undergraduate Faculty Faisal Qureshi Faisal Qureshi PhD Professor Computer Science Graduate Program Director Faculty of Science Exploring theory and models for the next generation of ad hoc networks of smart cameras providing perceptive coverage of extended spaces @faisalzqureshi Contact information Science Building - Room UA4071 North Oshawa 2000 Simcoe Street North Oshawa, ON L1G 0C5 905.721.8668 ext. 3626 faisal.qureshi@ontariotechu.ca http://vclab.science.ontariotechu/ Research topics Visual Sensor Networks Multicamera Tracking Graphics for Vision Video Summarization Stereo Depth Estimation Optical Flow Estimation Hyperspectral Image Analysis Deep Networks for Computer Vision Activity Analysis Action Recognition Image Inpainting Video Surveillance Areas of expertise Computer Science Computer Vision Deep Learning Camera Networks Video Summarization Graphics for Vision Background Dr. Qureshi received the B.Sc. degree in Mathematics and Physics from Punjab University, Lahore, Pakistan, in 1993, the M.Sc. degree in Electronics from Quaid-e- Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan, in 1995, and the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada, in 2000 and 2007, respectively. He is a Professor of Computer Science in the Faculty of Science, Ontario Tech University, where he leads the Visual Computing lab. His research focuses on computer vision, and his scientific and engineering interests center on the study of computational models of visual perception to support autonomous, purposeful behavior in the context of camera networks and self-organizing visual sensor networks. Education PhD Computer Science University of Toronto 2007 MSc Computer Science University of Toronto 2001 MSc Electronics Quaid-e-Azam University 1995 BSc Mathematics and Physics (Minor) Punjab University 1992 Courses taught CSCI 1061U - Programming Workshop II CSCI 2050U - Computer Architecture CSCI 3050U - Computer Architecture II CSCI 3070U - Design and Analysis of Algorithms CSCI 3010U - Simulation and Modeling CSCI 3090U - Computer Graphics CSCI 4110U - Advanced Computer Graphics CSCI 4220U - Computer Vision Graduate courses in Computer Vision, Deep Learning, and Machine Learning Involvement Selected publications A Residual-Dyad Encoder Discriminator Network for Remote Sensing Image Matching, Khurshid, N.; Mohbat; Taj, M.; and Qureshi, F. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 14pp., 2019. In press Joint Spatial and Layer Attention for Convolutional Networks, Joseph, T.; Derpanis, K.; and Qureshi, F. In 30th British Machine Vision Conference (BMVC19), 14pp, Cardiff, Sep 2019. Neural Networks Trained to Solve Differential Equations Learn General Representations, Magill, M.; Qureshi, F.; and de Haan, H. In The Thirty-second Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NuerIPS 18), 11pp, Montreal, Dec 2018. Fast Estimation of Large Displacement Optical Flow Using Dominant Motion Patterns & Sub-Volume PatchMatch Filtering, Helala, M.; and Qureshi, F. In 14th Conference on Computer and Robot Vision (CRV 17), 8pp, Edmonton, May 2017. Best Computer Vision Paper Stereo Reconstruction of Droplet Flight Trajectories, L.A. Zarrabitia; F.Z. Qureshi; and D.A. Aruliah. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 27(4), April, 2015, 847861. Smart Camera Networks in Virtual Reality, F.Z. Qureshi; and D. Terzopoulos. Proceedings of the IEEE, 96(10), October, 2008, 16401656, (Special Issue on Smart Cameras). Intelligent Perception and Control for Space Robotics: Autonomous Satellite Rendezvous and Docking, F.Z. Qureshi; and D. Terzopoulos. Journal of Machine Vision Applications, 19(3), February, 2008, 141161. Help Contact us Terms of use Website feedback Accessibility Connect Career opportunities Faculty experts Media inquiries Services for employers Visit Campus buildings Campus map Campus tours Campus virtual tour Info About Ontario Tech Governance Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 2000 Simcoe Street NorthOshawa, Ontario L1G 0C5Canada 905.721.8668 Ontario Tech University is the brand name used to refer to the University of Ontario Institute of Technology. University of Ontario Institute of Technology . Ontario Tech and Design, and Tech with a Conscience are Official Marks of Ontario Tech University. Top
