iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Joseph T. Tennis Joseph T. Tennis CV Professor, Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, Executive Director of Administrative Services jtennis@uw.edu 206-616-2542 Mary Gates Hall 370G Website CV Fax: 206-616-3152 Affiliate Positions Affiliate Member, Archives, Libraries, and Social Justice, Fluminense Federal University, Brazil Adjunct Associate Professor, Linguistics Department, University of Washington Public Scholarship Faculty, University of Washington Textual Studies Faculty, University of Washington Associate, Peter Wall Institute for Advanced Studies, University of British Columbia Affiliate Member, Centre for the International Study of Contemporary Records and Archives, University of British Columbia Specializations Classification Theory Information Provenance and Versioning Comparative Metadata Analysis Research Areas Library and Information Science Information and Society Biography Joseph T. Tennis is a Professor and Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs at the University of Washington Information School. He also serves as an Adjunct Associate Professor in the Department of Linguistics, as a member of the Museology Interdisciplinary Faculty Group, and as a member of the Textual Studies faculty at the University of Washington. His research centers on classification theory and is primarily concerned with examining how classification systems change over time, how diverse design requirements are invoked by different communities, and how these systems can interoperate in a web environment. He is increasingly interested in the ethics of information organization, and novel ways to evaluate structures in diverse and varied work practice contexts and discourses. He gave the Sarada Ranganathan Endowment & Ranganathan Memorial Lectures in 2017. Education Ph D, Information Science, University of Washington, 2005 SpLIS, Book History, Indiana University, 2000 MLIS, Indiana University, 1999 BA, Lawrence University, 1998 Awards Best Paper Award - North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization, 2019 Invited Symposium Participant - UCLA, 2017 Invited Professor - Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3, 2016 Best Paper in the Theory, Methodologies, Preservation and Standards Track - Digital Cultural Heritage 2015, 2015 Coorientador, Meno Honrosa do Prmio Capes de Tese 2014 da rea de Cincias Sociais Aplicadas I - State University of So Paulo, 2014 Nominated for PROF Award - University of Washington Information School, 2014 ALISE/Bohdan S. Wynar Research Paper Award - Association for Library and Information Science Education, 2012 Best Poster Award - iConference 2012, 2012 Conferencier for the Second Milwaukee Ethics of Information Organization Conference - School of Information Studies, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee, 2012 Nominated for PROF Award - University of Washington Information School, 2012 Visiting Scholar - Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientfico e Tecnolgico, 2012 Visiting Scholar - So Paulo State Research Foundation, 2011 Nominated for PROF Award - University of Washington Information School, 2010 Beta Phi Mu - Indiana University, 2000 Consulting and Other Projects Artefactual Systems, British Columbia League of Comics Librarians, Seattle Memberships American Society for Information Science & Technology, Classification Research Special Interest Group American Society for Information Science & Technology, History and Foundations of Information Science Special Interest Group International Association of Ontology and its Applications International Society for Knowledge Organization Publications and Contributions Conference Short Paper Studying Subject Ontogeny at Scale in a Polyhierarchical Indexing Language (2021) Authors: Chris Holstrom, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Workshop Paper Before and After: Artifacts of Temporality in Knowledge Organization Systems (2020) About Time: Information through the Lens of Time and Temporality, iConference 2020 (Suspended due to COVID-19) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Questions, Advice, Explanations, and Humor: A Qualitative Study of Social Tagging on MetaFilter (2020) Advances in Knowledge Organization, Proceedings of the 16th International ISKO Conference, 17(Unknown Issue) Authors: Christopher Holstrom, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Visibility, Identity, and Personal Expression: Qualitative Case Studies of Social Tagging on MetaFilter (2020) 2020 Conference of the International Society for Knowledge Organization (ISKO '20) Authors: Chris Holstrom, Joseph T. Tennis Metadata Standard Dublin Core Metadata Element Set ISO Standard 15836-2 (2019) Authors: Tom Baker, Joseph T. Tennis, Antoine Isaac, Bruce d'Arcus, Dan Brickley, Jana Hentschke, joachim Neubert, Karen Coyle, Kai Eckert, Osma Suominen, Phil Barker, Sarah Hartmann, Stefanie Ruehle, Stuart Sutton, Valentine Charles Conference Paper Episemantics: Aboutness as Aroundness (2019) Proceedings from North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization, 7(Unknown Issue), pp. 27-34 Authors: Elliot Hauser , Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Episemantics: Aboutness as Aroundness (2019) Knowledge Organization, 46(8), pp. 590-595 Authors: Elliot Hauser , Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Ethics for Contingent Classifications: Rortys Pragmatic Ethics and Postmodern Knowledge Organization (2019) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization, 7(Unknown Issue), pp. 112-119 Authors: Elliot Hauser , Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Four Orders of Classification Theory and Their Implications (2019) Cataloging and Classification Quarterly, 53(8), pp. 702-710 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Ethos of Care: A Festschrift for Dr. Allyson Carlyle on the Occasion of her Retirement (2018) Cataloging and Classification Quarterly, 56(8), pp. 663-664 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Foundations and Moving Forward: The Horizons and the Future of Research in Knowledge Organization (2018) Tendncias atuais e perspetivas futuras em Organizao do Conhecimento: Atas do III Congresso ISKO Espanha e Portugal/XIII Congresso ISKO Espanha, pp. 15-19 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Influence of metatheoretical research on knowledge organization (2018) Advances in Knowledge Organization, Challenges and Opportunities for Knowledge Organization in the Digital Age. Proceedings of the 15th International ISKO Conference, 16(Unknown Issue), pp. 273-281, ISBN/ISSN: 978-3-95650-420-4 Authors: Paula Carina de Arajo, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Intellectual History, History of Ideas, and Subject Ontogeny (2018) Advances in Knowledge Organization, Challenges and Opportunities for Knowledge Organization in the Digital Age. Proceedings of the 15th International ISKO Conference, 16(Unknown Issue), pp. 308-313, ISBN/ISSN: 978-3-95650-420-4 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Technical Report NA16 Metadata: Mutatis mutandi Design Requirements for Authenticity in the Cloud and Across Contexts (2018) InterPARES Research Project Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, C Rogers, K Timms, S Owens, L Rowledge Conference Paper Solid Foundations and some secondary assumptions in the design of bibliographic metadata: toward a typology of complementary uses of metadata (2018) Advances in Knowledge Organization, Challenges and Opportunities for Knowledge Organization in the Digital Age. Proceedings of the 15th International ISKO Conference, 16(Unknown Issue), pp. 450-457, ISBN/ISSN: 978-3-95650-420-4 Authors: Athena Salaba, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper A Knowledge Organization Platform: Integrating SKOS and PROV for Ontogenic Analysis (2017) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization Authors: Thomas Johnson, Xiaoyu Diana Qu, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster A Knowledge Organization System Observatory: First Steps and Functional Requirements (2017) 2017 iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Conceptual Analysis and Scheme Change: Assumptions and Research Design Decisions (2017) 2017 iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Metadata Standard Dublin Core Metadata Element Set ISO Standard 15836-1 (2017) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Facets and Change: Design Requirements for Analytio-Synthetic Schemes in Light of Subject Ontogeny Research (2017) Faceted Classification Today: Theory, Technology and End Users: Proceedings of the International UDC Seminar 2017, pp. 163-169 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Metatheory and Knowledge Organization (2017) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization, 6(Unknown Issue), pp. 173-181 Authors: Paula Carina de Arajo, Joseph T. Tennis, J A C Guimares Conference Poster Methodological Constructs in Descriptive Informatics and Framework Analysis (2017) 2017 iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Never Facets Alone: The Evolving Thought and Persistent Problems in Ranganathans Theories of Classification (2017) Dimensions of Knowledge: Facets for Knowledge Organization Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Ontogeny and Conceptual Geometry: Following Grdenfors to Create an Analytics for Conceptual Analysis and Change (2017) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper The Autism Prism: A Domain Analysis Paper Examining Neurodiversity (2017) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization Authors: Annuska Zolyomi, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper The concept of epistemology in knowledge organization: O conceito de epistemologia na organizao do conhecimento (2017) Memria, cultura e tecnologia na Organizao do Conhecimento, 4(Unknown Issue), pp. 71-78 Authors: Paula Carina de Araujo, Joseph T. Tennis, J A C Guimares Conference Poster Whose Truth? Digital Recordkeeping and Evidence in a Post-Truth World (2017) 2017 iSchool Research Fair Authors: Nicholas Weber, Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Conceptual Provenance in Indexing Languages (2016) Building Trust in Information: Perspectives on the Frontiers of Provenance, pp. 93-99 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Methodological Challenges in Scheme Versioning and Subject Ontogeny Research (2016) Knowledge Organization, 43(8), pp. 573-580 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Structure of Classification Theory: On Foundational and the Higher Layers of Classification Theory (2016) Advances in Knowledge Organization, 15(Unknown Issue), pp. 84-87 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper The Creativity of Classificationists: What Archival Records Show about the Global and Local Considerations in Classification Design (2016) Global/Local Knowledge Organization: Contexts and Questions (in Proceedings of the ASIST Annual Meeting) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Archival Metadata for Digital Cultural Heritage: Conceptual Provenance, Contextual Forensics, and the Authority of the Found Digital Object (2015) Proceedings of the Digital Cultural Heritage 2015 Conference, pp. 399-402 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Constructs in Classification Theory (2015) iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Published Keynote Address Epistemic, Ontic, Axiologic, and Praxic Constructs in Knowledge Organization Research (2015) Organizao do Conhecimento e Diversidade Cultural. Estudos Avanados em Organizao do Conhecimento. 2015 ISKO-Brazil Conference, 3(Unknown Issue), pp. 21-29, ISBN/ISSN: 978-85-98176-70-3 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Foundational, First-Order, and Second-Order Classification Theory (2015) Proceedings of the 2015 North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Foundational, First-Order, and Second-Order Classification Theory (2015) Knowledge Organization, 42(4), pp. 244-249 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Non-Scholarly Book-New Metadata Application Profiles (2015) Encyclopedia of Archival Concepts, Principles, and Practices Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Methodological Constructs in Subject Ontogeny Research, Second Edition (2015) iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis White Paper Provenance: Past, Present and Future in Interdisciplinary Perspective: Report on the InterPARES Trust Interdisciplinary Workshop on Provenance (2015) Second iTrust Interdisciplinary Workshop on Provenance Author: Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New The Memory of What Is: Ontogenic Analysis and its Relationship to Ontological Concerns in Knowledge Organization (2015) Ontology in Knowledge Organization, pp. 161-166 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Theoretical and Engineering Problems of Conceptual Provenance in Long-Lived Classification Schemes (2015) iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Words and Emotional Work: Classification Theorys Constructs Useful for the Analysis of Social Media Data in Terms of Gender, Race, and Sexuality (2015) Proceedings of the Workshop on Exploring Gender, Race, and Sexuality through Social Media Data Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal A Kaleidoscope Perspective: Change in the Semantics and Structure of Facets and Isolates in Analytico-Synthetic Classification (2014) SRELS: Journal of Information Management, 50(6), pp. 789-794 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Description and Diffrance: Archives, Libraries, and Museum Descriptive Traditions and their Educational Communities and Cultures (2014) Proceedings of the ASIST Annual Meeting Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Load Bearing or Levittown? The Edifice Metaphor in Conceptualizing the Ethos of Classification Work (2014) Proceedings of the 13th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization: Advances in Knowledge Organization, 14(Unknown Issue), pp. 222-227 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Me, My Metadata, and the NSA (2014) In the proceedings of the 2014 iConference. Authors: Bryce Newell, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Methodological Constructs in Subject Ontogeny Research (2014) iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Rubrics of Authenticity in the Cloud: Metadata, Description, Documentation, and Discussion (2014) Proceedings of the International Conference on Archives Author: Joseph T. Tennis Co-Editor, Conference Proceedings Advances in Classification Research (2013) ASIS&T Annual Meeting, 23(Unknown Issue) Editors: Kathryn La Barre, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Authenticity as a Social Contract - We Are Our Records (2013) Proceedings of the 2013 iConference, pp. 801-803 Authors: C Rogers, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Collocative Integrity and Our Many Varied Subjects: What the Metric of Alignment between Classification Scheme and Indexer Tells Us About Langridges Theory of Indexing (2013) Proceedings of North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization (NASKO) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Technical Report Content Strategy for ChronoZoom 2.0 (2013) Content Curation for ChronoZoom Project Authors: Swati Chaturvedi, Sujay Gandhi, Shuai Yu, Michael Crandall, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Developing a video game metadata schema for the Seattle Interactive Media Museum (2013) International Journal on Digital Libraries, 13(2), pp. 105-117 Authors: Jin Ha Lee, Joseph T. Tennis, Rachel Clarke, Michael Carpenter Conference Paper Diplomatics as a methodological perspective for archival knowledge organization (2013) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization (NASKO) Authors: Natlia Bolfarini Tognoli , Jos Augusto Chaves Guimares, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Edifice Complex: Conceptualizing Classification in 1890 and Now (2013) iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Ethos and Ideology of Knowledge Organization: Toward Precepts for an Engaged Knowledge Organization (2013) Knowledge Organization, 40(1), pp. 42-49 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Learning Linked Data for Educators (2013) Authors: Michael Crandall, Joseph T. Tennis, Stuart Sutton, David Talley, Thomas Baker Conference Paper Metaphors of Time and Installed Knowledge Organization Systems: Ouroboros, Architectonics, or Lachesis? (2013) Information Research, 18(3) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Modeling the aesthetic axis of information organization frameworks, part 1: Theoretical basis (2013) Journal of Documentation, 69(6), pp. 807-826 Authors: Paul Ojennus, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Modeling the aesthetic axis of information organization frameworks, part 2: Cast studies (2013) Journal of Documentation, 69(6), pp. 827-850 Authors: Paul Ojennus, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Planning a Platform for Learning Linked Data (2013) DC-2013 Linking to the Future Authors: Michael Crandall, Joseph T. Tennis, Stuart Sutton, T Baker, D Talley Conference Poster Poster: Authenticity as a Social Contract - We Are Our Records (2013) 2013 iConference Authors: C Rogers, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper The Weight of Language and Action: Epistemic Stance, Methodological Action, and Theoretical Perspective in Knowledge Organization (2013) Tales from the Edge: Narrative Voices in Information Research and Practice: Proceedings of the 41st Annual Conference of the Canadian Association of Information Science Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Toward a Taxonomy of Harm in Knowledge Organization Systems (2013) Proceedings of the North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization (NASKO) Authors: Melissa Adler, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Toward a Taxonomy of Harm in Knowledge Organization Systems (2013) Knowledge Organization, 40(4), pp. 266-272 Authors: Melissa Adler, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Uncovering Epistemological Assumptions Underlying Research in Information Studies (2013) Proceedings of the ASIST Annual Meeting Authors: S Fuller, B Hjrland, F Ibekwe-SanJuan, L Ma, J-E Mai, Joseph T. Tennis, J Warner Journal Article, Academic Journal A Convenient Verisimilitude or Oppressive Internalization? Characterizing the Ethical Arguments surrounding Hierarchical Structures in Knowledge Organization Systems (2012) Knowledge Organization, 39(5), pp. 394-397 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Aeons and Flux: Timelines and Epistemes in Classification Design and Evaluation (2012) Advances in Classification Research, 23(Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Categorical Landscapes: Large Scale Cluster Analysis of Wikipedia Category System over Time (2012) iSchool Research Fair 2012 Authors: Jevin West, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Comparative Modeling of Vickerys Faceted Classification and the Oeuvre of S. R. Ranganathan (2012) Facets of Knowledge Organization: A Tribute to Professor Brian Vickery 1918-2009, pp. 301-313 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Constant Pioneers: The Citation Frontiers of Indexing Theory in ISKO International Proceedings (2012) Proceedings of the 12th International Conference for Knowledge Organization: Advances in Knowledge Organization, 13(Unknown Issue), pp. 39-43 Authors: J. A. C. Guimares, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Data, Documents, and Memory: A Taxonomy of Sources in Relation to Digital Preservation Metadata (2012) UNESCO Conference on Memory of the World in the Digital Age: Digitization and Preservation Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Domain analysis for a video game metadata schema: issues and challenges (2012) Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries 2012, 7489(Unknown Issue), pp. 280-285 Authors: Jin Ha Lee, Joseph T. Tennis, Rachel Clarke Conference Poster Emerging Concepts in Ontogenic Analysis (2012) iSchool Research Fair 2012 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Facets and Fugit Tempus: Considering Time in Faceted Classification Schemes (2012) Proceedings of the 12th International Conference for Knowledge Organization. Advances in Knowledge Organization, 13(Unknown Issue), pp. 58-62 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Facets of Access: a Typology of Information Dissemination Systems (2012) iConference 2012, pp. 544-545 Authors: Elisabeth Jones, Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Forms, Knowledge, and Forms of Knowing: Correct and Useful Epistemology and Knowledge Organization (2012) Desafios e perspectivas cientficas para a organizao do conhecimento na atualidade. Estudos avanados em organizao do conhecimento., 1(Unknown Issue), pp. 22-29 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Research Report General Study 15 Application Profile for Authenticity Metadata (2012) Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, Corinne Rogers Conference Extended Abstract Humanistic Information Science (2012) Proceedings of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, ISBN/ISSN: 0-87715-544-7 Authors: Melanie Feinberg, Jonathan Furner, Jens-Erik Mai, Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Questions about Content Curation in ChronoZoom (2012) iSchool Research Fair 2012 Authors: Michael Crandall, Joseph T. Tennis, Rachel Clarke Conference Paper Some Temporal Aspects of Indexing and Classification: Toward a Metrics for Measuring Scheme Change (2012) iConference 2012, pp. 311-316 Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, Katherine Thornton, Filer Andrew Journal Article, Academic Journal The Weight of Language and Action: Epistemic Stance, Methodological Action, and Theoretical Perspective in Knowledge Organization (Le poids du langage et de laction dans lorganisation des connaissances: Position pistmologique, action mthodologique et perspective thorique) (2012) tudes de Communication, 39(Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Visualizing the Life-Cycle of Authenticity Metadata (2012) iSchool Research Fair 2012 Authors: Corinne Rogers, Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New What Does a Domain Analysis Look Like in Form, Function, and Genre? (2012) A organizao do conhecimento como domnio: perspectivas tericas, pp. 1-10 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Ekphrasis, Artists Intentions, and Anthropological Polemics in Angle Brackets: Toward a Thicker Description of Digital Documentary Material (2011) Advances in Classification Research, 22 (Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Is There a New Bibliography? (2011) Cataloging & Classification Quarterly, 49(2) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Ranganathans Layers of Classification Theory and the FASDA Model of Classification (2011) Proceedings of the 2011 North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Form, Intention, and Indexing: The Liminal and Integrated Conceptions of Work in Knowledge Organization (2010) Advances in Classification Research Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Measured Time: Imposing a Temporal Metric to Classificatory Structures (2010) Proceedings of the 11th International Conference for Knowledge Organization, Advances in Knowledge Organization vol. 12(Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Caveat Fractal: Dissecting the Body of Indexing Theory, Uncovering Complexity, and Moving Toward Performativity (2009) iSchool Research Fair Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Social tagging in the life sciences: characterizing a new metadata resource for bioinformatics (2009) BMC Bioinformatics, 10(313) Authors: B M Good, Joseph T. Tennis, M. W. Wilkinson Journal Article, Academic Journal Term Based Comparison Metrics for Controlled and Uncontrolled Indexing Languages (2009) Information Research, 14(1) Authors: B M Good, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Three Creative Tensions in Document Interpretation Theory Set as Evidence of the Need for a Descriptive Informatics (2009) Knowledge Organization Author: Joseph T. Tennis Book Editor, Scholarly Culture and Identity in Knowledge Organization: Proceedings of the 10th International Conference for Knowledge Organization (2008) 11(Unknown Issue) Editors: C. Arsenault, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Epistemology, Theory, and Methodology in Knowledge Organization: Toward a Classification, Metatheory, and Research Framework (2008) Knowledge Organization, 35(3-Feb), pp. 102-112 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Poster Evidence of Term-Structure Differences among Folksonomies and Controlled Indexing Languages (2008) Annual Meeting for the American Society for Information Science and Technology Authors: B M Good, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Extending the Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS) for Concept Management in Vocabulary Development Applications (2008) Journal of the American Society for Information Science & Technology, 59(1), pp. 25-37 Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, Stuart Sutton Conference Paper Toward a Theory of Structure in Information Organization Frameworks (2008) Culture and Identity in Knowledge Organization: Proceedings of the 10th International Conference for Knowledge Organization, Advances in Knowledge Organization vol. 11(Unknown Issue), pp. 262-268 Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, E. K. Jacob Conference Paper Diachronic and Synchronic Indexing: Modeling Conceptual Change in Indexing Languages (2007) Information Sharing in a Fragmented World, Crossing Boundaries. Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Canadian Association for Information Science/L'Association canadienne des sciences de l'information, pp. 1-11 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Ontologies and the Semantic Web: Problems and Perspectives for LIS Professionals (2007) IBERSID: Revista de Sistemas de Informacin y Documentacin,, pp. 303-311 Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, J Calzada-Prado Book Editor, Scholarly Proceedings of the North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization (2007) 1(Unknown Issue) Editor: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Scheme Versioning in the Semantic Web (2007) Cataloging & Classification Quarterly, 43(4), pp. 85-104 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Social capital 2.0: New ICTs and new social forms (2007) Proceedings of the ASIST Annual Meeting, 44(Unknown Issue) Authors: Claire R McInerney, Joseph T. Tennis, Anna-Karin Ttterman, Gunilla Widn-Wulff, Steve Wright, Ronald E Day Conference Paper The Economic and Aesthetic Axis of Information Organization Frameworks (2007) Proceedings of the North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization, pp. 112-113 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Comparative Functional Analysis of Boundary Infrastructures, Library Classification, and Folksonomies (2006) Information Science Revisited: Approaches to Innovation Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Canadian Association for Information Science/L'Association canadienne des sciences de l'information Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Function, Purpose, Prediction, and Context of Information Organization Frameworks (2006) Knowledge Organization for a Global Learning Society: Proceedings of the 9th International Conference for Knowledge Organization. International Society for Knowledge Organization, Advances in Knowledge Organization vol 10(Unknown Issue), pp. 303-310 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Technical Report Investigating the Roles and Requirements, Manifestations and Management of Metadata in the Creation of Reliable and Preservation of Authentic Electronic Entities Created by Dynamic, Interactive and Experiential Systems: Report on the Work and Findings of (2006) Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, A. Gilliland, L. Lindberg, V McCargar, A Langmead, T Lauriault, M Leahey-Sugimoto, J Evans, H Wang Conference Paper Social Tagging and the Next Steps for Indexing: Fordist Relexivity and Intertextuality (2006) Advances in Classification Research, 17(Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Technical Report Terminology Cross-Domain Final Report (2006) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper The Notion of the 'Concept Instance': Problems in Modeling Concept Change in SKOS (2006) International Conference on Dublin Core and Metadata Applications: Metadata for Knowledge and Learning Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, Stuart Sutton, D. Hillmann Book Review Theory, Culture & Society Vol. 23 (2-3) Edited by Mike Featherstone (2006) Knowledge Organization, 33(4), pp. 216-219 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Toward a general approach to information organization (2006) Proceedings of the ASIST Annual Meeting Authors: Jonathan Furner, Francis Miksa, William E Moen, Frank Exner, Little Bear, Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Professional Journal Versioning Concept Schemes for Persistent Retrieval (2006) Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology Author: Joseph T. Tennis Journal Article, Academic Journal Experientialist Epistemology and Classification Theory: Embodied and Dimensional Classification (2005) Knowledge Organization, 32(2), pp. 79-92 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper SKOS and the Ontogenesis of Vocabularies (2005) International Conference on Dublin Core and Metadata Applications: Vocabularies in Practice, pp. 275-278 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Hierarchy and the Foundations of Classification: The Inspection of its Ontological Status and Its Role in Ethics ISKO Low Countries Author: Joseph T. Tennis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Intellectual Control Trusting Records in the Cloud Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Intensional Megacities: Toward Mapping the Semantics of Linked Classification Schemes Advances in Classification Research Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Metatheoretical Restoration: Modeling Ranganathans Dynamic Theory of Classification North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper On Operationalization and Evaluation of Epistemic and Ontological Claims to Knowledge Organization Advances in Classification Research, 26(Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Perspective, Voice, Reference, and Warrant: A Sample of Ameliorations to the Multi-Perspective Design Requirement and Some Arguments Against It Advances in Classification Research, 27(Unknown Issue) Author: Joseph T. Tennis Conference Paper Philosophy of Language in Knowledge Organization: Speciating Problems of Pragmatics, Formal Logic, and the Spaces in Between 2020 Conference of the International Society for Knowledge Organization (ISKO '20) Authors: Joseph T. Tennis, Elliot Hauser Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New What Does a Domain Analysis Look Like in Form, Function, and Genre? A organizao do conhecimento como domnio: perspectivas tericas. So Paulo : Cultura Acadmica, pp. 1-10 Author: Joseph T. Tennis Presentations Problem-Solved: Metadata Explorations vs. Metadata Education (2021) Dublin Core Metadata Initiative International Conference - Virtual Research at iSchools (2021) iConference 2021 Doctoral Colloquium - Virtual Before and After: Artefacts of Temporality in Knowledge Organization Systems (2020) iConference 2020 (Suspended due to COVID-19 - Bors, Sweden In Lux Perpetua: Algorithmic Transparency, Subject Ontogeny Work, and the Ethical Use of Classification Theory (2020) iSchool Research Fair (Suspended due to COVID-19) - Seattle, WA Invisible, Not Viable, Venal, and Now Vibrant: Metadata Research throughout InterPARES (2020) 2020 International InterPARES Symposium - San Jos, Costa Rica Metadata as it has been researched throughout InterPARES (2020) InterPARES Research Findings Conference - San Jose, Costa Rica Pure Flow and Mixed Flow: Comparative Examination of Census Ethnicity Classification as a Case Study for Category Formation (2020) iSchool Research Fair (Suspended due to COVID-19 - Seattle, WA Tec(h)tonic Race and Ethnicity: Conceptual Structuration of Census Data (2020) 2020 ASIS&T Virtual Annual Meeting - Virtual Authenticity Metadata and the Integrity of Systems: An Empirical Study (2019) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, Washington Critical Structured Data Studies (2019) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, Washington Domain Analysis and Domain Change: Platform Shift and Alignment Documentation and Knowledge Organization Work (2019) Domain Analysis Clinic of the Institute for Knowledge Organization and Structure - Milwaukee, WI Episemantics: Aboutness as Aroundness (2019) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization - Philadelphia, PA FASDA Classification Theory (2019) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, Washington Hierarchy and the Foundations of Classification: The Inspection of its Ontological Status and its Role in Ethics (2019) The Inaugural Conference of the Low Countries Chapter of the International Society for Knowledge Organization - Brussels, Belgium Metatheoretical Restoration: Modeling Ranganathans Dynamic Theory of Classification (2019) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization - Philadelphia, PA Mutatis Mutandis: Evidence of Authenticity through Metadata and its Sources in Records Preservation (2019) InterPARES Trust Cuban Workshop - Havana, Cuba Platform Analysis and Change: A New Look at Domain Analysis in Light of Subject Ontogeny Work (2019) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, Washington Second-Order Classification Theory: Contextualizing Classification Change in Our Design Commitments (2019) iSchool Research Symposium - Seattle, WA Engineering the Discourse, or, New Sources for the History of Ideas: A Workshop Exploring the Intersection of Linked Open Data, Classification Theory, and Digital Humanities (2018) Workshop on Critical Structured Data Studies: University of California-Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA Ensuring the Future of Libraries: Connecting the Academy and the Profession (2018) Public Library Association Conference - Philadelphia, PA Ensuring the Future of Libraries: Connecting the Academy and the Profession (2018) Public Library Association (PLA) 2018 Conference - Philadelphia, PA Expressing and obscuring throughout: Politics, values, and semantics derived from a conceptual analysis of classification terms (2018) The Politics of Classification Workshop - 15th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization - Porto, Portugal Influence of Metatheory on Knowledge Organization (2018) 15th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization - Porto, Portugal Intellectual History, History of Ideas, and Subject Ontogeny (2018) 15th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization - Porto, Portugal Knowledge Organization as Science: The Vision of Ingetraut Dahlberg (2018) Fifteenth International ISKO Conference - Porto, Portugal Lemmata Manifest: Modeling Classification Theory Using IDEF0 Formalism to Surface Elisions (2018) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, WA Resources, Priorities, and Equity: Conversations and Practices in the Service of a Joyful Faculty Life (2018) 2018 ASIS&T Annual Meeting - Vancouver, BC, Canada Semantic Record Keeping and the IPAM (InterPARES Authenticity Metadata Application Profile): A Different Kind of Case Study for Authenticity Metadata (2018) State Archives of Rome - Rome, Italy Semantic Space and Conceptual Geometry: A Gap Analysis for Classification Methodology (2018) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, WA Solid Foundations and Some Secondary Assumptions in the Design of Bibliographic Metadata: Toward a Typology of Complementary Uses of Metadata (2018) 15th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization - Porto, Portugal The Ideal, the Real, and Way Forward: Archival Metadata in the Contemporary Distributed Environment (2018) InterPARES European Team Symposium - Jerusalem, Israel Warrant, Analysis, and Mapping: Classification Theory, Digital Humanities and the Contemporary Linked Data Environment (2018) Workshop on Critical Structured Data Studies: University of California-Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA A Faculty of One with Faculty Affairs: An Undepartmentalized Model of iSchool Faculty Shared Governance (2017) iConference 2017 - Wuhan, China Conceptual Geometry and Analytico-Synthetic Techniques in Classification (2017) International Conference on Knowledge Organization for Information Management: Revisiting Ranganathan - Chennai, India Do We Have All the Terms for this Art?: Exploring the Nature and Continued Conceptualization of KOS through their Collective and Individual Histories (2017) Observatory for Knowledge Organisation Systems Workshop - Valetta, Malta Expressing and Obscuring Throughout: Politics, Values, and Semantics Derived form a Conceptual Analysis of Classification Terms (2017) Politics of Classification, Invitational Multidisciplinary Symposium - Los Angeles, CA Facets and Change: Design Requirements for Analytio-Synthetic Schemes in Light of Subject Ontogeny Research (2017) International UDC Seminar 2017: Faceted Classification Today - London, UK Foundations and Moving Forward: The Horizons and the Future of Research in Knowledge Organization (2017) 2017 ISKO-Spain Portugal Conference - Coimbra, Portugal International Society for Knowledge Organization (2017) 2017 NKOS Workshop - Crystal City, VA Perspective, Voice, Reference, and Warrant: A Sample of Ameliorations to the Multi-Perspective Design Requirement and Some Arguments Against It (2017) American Society for Information Science and Technology Special Interest Group/Classification Research Workshop - Crystal City, WA Through Formal Analysis and Theories of Meaning: Extending the Trajectory of S. R. Ranganathan's Theoretical Frameworks in Classification Research (2017) iSchool Research Symposium - Seattle, WA Through Formal Analysis and Theories of Meaning: Extending the Trajectory of S. R. Ranganathans Theoretical Frameworks in Classification Research (2017) 19th Sarada Ranganathan Endowment lectures/Ranganathan Memorial - Chennai, India Voice in Context: Culture, Inclusion, and Faculty Review (2017) ADVANCE Workshop - Seattle, WA Whose Truth? Digital Recordkeeping and Evidence in a Post-Truth World (2017) iSchool Research Fair - Seattle, Washington Construct and Construct Patterns for Ethical Knowledge Organization (2016) European and International Doctoral Seminar on Advances in Social Sciences and Humanities: State of the Art, Findings, Perspectives from France and the International Community, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France Contextual Forensics and Archival Metadata (2016) Guest lecture in PhD, Master 1 and 2 Courses, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France Dublin Core at 21 and Beyond: On Solid Foundations We Build New Work (2016) Dublin Core at 21, IFLA Satellite Meeting - Dublin, OH Enumerative, Faceted, and Second-Order Classification Theory (2016) Guest lecture in PhD Course, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France Information Provenance and Versioning: Ontogeny and Its Constructs (2016) Guest lecture in Master 1 Course, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France iSchools and the iSchools Movement (2016) Guest lecture in PhD, Master 1 and 2 Courses, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France Know You Do Wrong: Intentionality, Ethics, and Knowledge Organization (2016) European and International Doctoral Seminar on Advances in Social Sciences and Humanities: State of the Art, Findings, Perspectives from France and the International Community, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France Metadata in the Wild: Comparative Analysis of Knowledge Organization Structures, Practices, and Discourses (2016) Guest lecture in Master 1 Course, Universit Charles-de-Gaulle - Lille 3 - Villeneuve d'Ascq, France Renewable Concepts: Intellectual Landscape of Knowledge Organization for a Sustainable World." KO for a Sustainable World: ISKO Perspectives. (2016) International Society for Knowledge Organization Conference (ISKO) - Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Structure of Classification Theory: On Foundational and the Higher Layers of Classification Theory (2016) 13th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization - Rio de Janeiro, Brazil The Creativity of Classificationists: What Archival Records Show about the Global and Local Considerations in Classification Design (2016) Global/Local Knowledge Organization: Contexts and Questions Panel, at Association for Information Science and Technology Annual Meeting - Copenhagen, Denmark The Hamburg Hydra and Semantics: Classification, Ethnography, Provenance, and Truth (2016) Digital Humanities Cross-Disciplinary Lecture, Linnaeus University - Vxj, Sweden Archival Metadata for Digital Cultural Heritage: Conceptual Provenance, Contextual Forensics, and the Authority of the Found Digital Object (2015) Digital Cultural Heritage 2015 Conference - Granada, Spain Cannons, Connections, and Questions (2015) Round Table Talk at 2015 ISKO-Brazil Conference - Marlia, So Paulo, Brazil Casting Our Eyes Over the Threads of the Cataloguer's Work: Population Perspective in Metadata Research (2015) Evolution and variation of classification systems: how stable is the organization of knowledge and how diverse is its representations? Toward a Metadata Observatory, eHumanities Group, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences - Amsterdam, Netherlands Categoriography: Thick Description of Semantics in Long-lived Complex Information Systems (2015) New Trends in eHumanities, eHumanities Group, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences - Amsterdam, Netherlands Conceptual Provenance in Indexing Languages (2015) iTrust Interdisciplinary Workshop on Provenance. World Bank. - Washington, D. C. Constructs and Construct Patterns for Ethical Knowledge Organization (2015) Third Milwaukee Conference on Ethics in Knowledge Organization - Milwaukee, Wisconsin Epistemic, Ontic, Axiologic, and Praxic Constructs in Knowledge Organization Research (2015) 2015 ISKO-Brazil Conference - Marlia, So Paulo, Brazil Foundational, First-Order, and Second-Order Classification Theory (2015) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization - Los Angeles, CA Intentional Practice in Knowledge Organization and Librarianship (2015) College Librarians and Media Specialists of Washington State 2015 Conference - Everett, Washington Invisible Conceptual Art and the Harm It Can Do: Defining the Aesthetics of the Archive, Classification, and Knowledge Organization (2015) This Might Now Work interdisciplinary presentation series. Photo Center Northwest - Seattle, Washington Local and Global Knowledge Organization: Constructs, Commonalities, and our new Cartography (2015) Local and Global Knowledge Organization - Copenhagen, Denmark On Operationalization and Evaluation of Epistemic and Ontological Claims to Knowledge Organization (2015) American Society for Information Science and Technology Special Interest Group/Classification Research Workshop - St. Louis, Missouri Words and Emotional Work: Classification Theorys Constructs Useful for the Analysis of Social Media Data in Terms of Gender, Race, and Sexuality (2015) Workshop on Exploring Gender, Race, and Sexuality through Social Media Data - Newport Beach, California 2014 San Francisco Zen Center Archives Project (2014) San Francisco Zen Center - San Francisco, CA A Crucible for Collections and Classification: The Built Environment, the Social Milieu and Their Effect on Bibliographical Access in of New York City Libraries 1890-1930 (2014) Research Conversation, University of Washington Information School - Seattle, WA A New York Semantic Pastiche: Writing and Intertextuality in the Billings Classification (2014) Society for Textual Studies 18th International Interdisciplinary Conference - Seattle, WA A New York Semantic Pastiche: Writing and Intertextuality in the Billings Classification (2014) Society for Textual Studies 18th International Interdisciplinary Conference - Seattle, WA Cannons, Affiliations, and Polytely: The Future of Knowledge Organization and ISKO (2014) A Discussion panel. ISKO and KO 25 Anniversary: The Future of Knowledge Organization and ISKO. International Society for Knowledge Organization - Krakow, Poland Description and Diffrance: Archive, Library, and Museum Descriptive Traditions and Their Educational Communities and Cultures (2014) Association of Information Science and Technology annual meeting (ASIS&T) - Seattle, WA Evidence or Tea Leaves? Digital Records, Fragmented Systems, and Authenticity Metadata (2014) Investigating the Archive: Memory & Identity, The Royal Society of Edinburgh - Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom Intensional Megacities: Toward Mapping the Semantics of Linked Classification Schemes (2014) American Society for Information Science and Technology Special Interest Group/Classification Research Workshop - Seattle, WA Libraries, Archives, and Museums: Connecting Educational Cultures and Communities (2014) ASIS&T Annual Conference - Seattle, WA Linnaean Fever: Symptoms and Heuristics in the Order of the Archive (2014) University of Washington Art Department - Seattle, WA Load Bearing or Levittown? The Edifice Metaphor in Conceptualizing the Ethos of Classification Work (2014) 13th Annual Conference on Knowledge Organization - Krakow, Poland Me, My Metadata, and the NSA: Privacy and Government Metadata Surveillance Programs (2014) iConference 2014 - Berlin, Germany Metadata, Mutatis Mutandis: Cloud-Based Conceptions of Authenticity Metadata (2014) Provenance, Metadata & Ethics: Trust and Recordkeeping in the Cloud?, Society for American Archivists - Washington, DC Methodological Constructs in Subject Ontogeny Research (2014) University of Washington Information School Research Fair - Seattle, WA Networks, Authenticity, Metadata, and the Cloud (2014) International Symposium on Records in the Cloud - Stockholm, Sweden Rubrics of Authenticity in the Cloud: Metadata, Description, Documentation, and Discussion (2014) International Council on Archives - Girona, Spain Collocative Integrity and Our Many Varied Subjects: What the Metric of Alignment between Classification Scheme and Indexer Tells Us About Langridge?s Theory of Indexing (2013) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization - Milwaukee, WI Constructs in Knowledge Organization Systems: Rhythm in Time, Intention, and Form (2013) 9th Conference of the International Society for Knowledge Organization - French Chapter - Paris, France Diplomatics as a Methodological Perspective for Archival Knowledge Organization (2013) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization - Milwaukee, WI Immovable Types, Conceptual Neighborhoods, or Semantic Diaspora? Making Sense of the Findings from the Ontogenic Analysis of a Long-Lived Classification Scheme (2013) Graduate School of Library and Information Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Champaign-Urbana, IL Justified and True Intentions: Epistemic Assumptions in KOS Research (2013) Uncovering Epistemological Assumptions underlying Research in Information Studies, Association for Information Science and Technology - Montreal, QC, Canada Metadata and Schema Issues as Part of ChronoZoom 2.0 (2013) January Kickoff for ChronoZoom 2.0 Summit, Microsoft Research - Redmond, WA Metaphors of Time and Installed Knowledge Organization Systems: Ouroboros, Architectonics, or Lachesis? (2013) Conceptions of Library and Information Science 8, Det Informationsvidenskabelige Akademi - Copenhagen, Denmark Open Worlds in Closed Systems: The Methodological Concerns at the Intersection of Literary Warrant and Scheme Change (2013) UCLA - Los Angeles, CA Temporal Aspects of Metadata Aggregations in Cultural Heritage Repositories: ChronoZoom HathiTrust and the Volume, Variety, and Velocity of Contemporary Information Organization (2013) 2013 Joint Conference on Digital Libraries, ACM/IEEE - Indianapolis, IN The Strange Case of Eugenics: A Subject?s Ontogeny in a Long-Lived Classification Scheme and the Question of Collocative Integrity (2013) ALISE ?13: Annual Conference of the Association for Library and Information Science Education, ALISE - Seattle, WA The Weight of Language and Action: Epistemic Stance, Methodological Action, and Theoretical Perspective in Knowledge Organization (2013) 41st Annual Conference of the Canadian Association of Information Science - Victoria, BC, Canada Toward a Taxonomy of Harm in Knowledge Organization Systems (2013) North American Symposium on Knowledge Organization - Milwaukee, WI A Convenient Verisimilitude or Oppressive Internalization? Characterizing the Ethical Arguments surrounding Hierarchical Structures in Knowledge Organization Systems (2012) 2nd Milwaukee Conference on Ethics of Information Organization - Milwaukee, WI Aeons and Flux: Timelines and Epistemes in Classification Design and Evaluation (2012) American Society for Information Science and Technology Special Interest Group/Classification Research Workshop (ASIST SIG/CR) - Baltimore, MD Authenticity Metadata and the IPAM: Progress toward the InterPARES Application Profile (2012) International Conference on Dublin Core and Metadata Applications: Metadata for Meeting Global Challenges - Kuching, Malaysia Constant Pioneers: The Citation Frontiers of Indexing Theory in ISKO International Proceedings (2012) 12th International Conference for Knowledge Organization - Mysore, India Data, Documents, and Memory: A Taxonomy of Sources in Relation to Digital Preservation Metadata (2012) Memory of the World in the Digital Age: Digitization and Preservation, UNESCO - Vancouver, BC, Canada Enumerating and Erasing Eugenics in the DDC: Methodological Concerns at the Intersection of Literary Warrant and Scheme Change (2012) University of Wisconsin Milwaukee - Milwaukee, WI Facets and Fugit Tempus: Considering Time in Faceted Classification Schemes (2012) 12th International Conference for Knowledge Organization - Mysore, India Neither Editor nor Librarian: The Interventions Required in the New Context of Texts in the Digital World (2012) Modern Language Association - Seattle, WA Precepts for an Engaged Knowledge Organization." Transl. "Preceitos para uma Organiza??o do conhecimento comprometida ? EKO (2012) Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina - Florianpolis, Brazil Precepts for an Engaged Knowledge Organization." Transl. "Preceitos para uma Organiza??o do conhecimento comprometida ? EKO (2012) Univerisade de Estaudual Paulista - Marlia, Brazil Some Temporal Aspects of Indexing and Classification: Toward a Metrics for Measuring Scheme Change (2012) iConference 2012 - Toronto, ON, Canada Subject Ontogeny and Scheme Versioning: A Semantic Archaeology and Its Methods (2012) Round Table on Emerging Research in Knowledge Organization hosted by Univerisade de Estaudual Paulista, UNESP, Univerisade de Estaudual Paulista, UNESP - Marlia, Brazil Subject Ontogeny, Intention in Indexing, and Descriptive Informatics (2012) Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina - Florianpolis, Brazil Tale of Two Timelines: Structural Analysis and Comparison of Chain of Preservation Metadata and Classification Scheme Change Over Time (2012) Research Conversation, University of Washington, iSchool - Seattle, WA The Strange Case of Eugenics vs. Anatomy: Investigating and Benchmarking Change in Subject Classification (2012) University of Montreal - Montreal, QC, Canada Time Capsulation: Conceptual and Methodological Issues in Studying Scheme Change (2012) McGill University - Montreal, QC, Canada Toward a Geometry of Meaning: Some Work on Creating a Systematic Evaluation Rubric for Knowledge Organization Systems (2012) Research Conversation - Seattle, WA Trust, Conflicting Rights, and Metadata (2012) Peter Wall Institute for Advanced Study Exploratory Workshop on Trust and Conflicting Rights in the Digital Environment - Vancouver, BC, Canada Clarity in Form and Purpose: Metadata beyond the Schemas (2011) ACA - Association of Canadian Archivists - Toronto, ON, Canada Classification (Guest Lecture) (2011) University of Montreal - Montreal, QC, Canada Comparative Modeling of Vickery's Faceted Classification and the Oeuvre of S. R. Ranganathan (2011) Facets of Knowledge Organization: A Tribute to Professor Brian Vickery, ISKO-United Kingdom - London, England, United Kingdom Description Writ Large: Comparisons and Crossovers in the Lineages of Archival and Bibliographic Description (2011) Niteri, Brazil Diachrony in Indexing Languages: A Case Study of Anatomy and Eugenics in the Dewey Decimal Classification (2011) Linguistics Department Colloquium - Seattle, WA Forms, Knowledge, and Forms of Knowing: Epistemology and Knowledge Organization (2011) ISKO-Brazil Conference on KO and Representation - Brasilia, Brazil Leveraging Metadata: Interoperability Across Systems, Time and Conceptions (2011) Annual Meeting, Society of American Archivists - Toronto, ON, Canada Precepts for an Engaged Knowledge Organization." Transl. "Preceitos para uma Organiza??o do conhecimento comprometida ? EKO (2011) State University of S?o Paulo - Marlia, Brazil The Scaffolding of Self-Becoming: Some Feminist Perspectives on Structure and Semantics in Knowledge Organization (2011) Research Conversation, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Form, Intention, and Indexing: Liminal Conception Work and Integrated Conception of Self and Labor in Knowledge Organization (2010) Special Interest Group/Classification Research Workshop, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Pittsburgh, PA Knowledge Organization as Design Research (2010) DUB Colloquium, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Measured Time: Imposing a Temporal Metric to Classificatory Structures (2010) International Conference, ISKO - International Society for Knowledge Organization - Rome, Italy Metadata: Interoperability Across Systems, Time, and Conceptions (2010) International Symposium, InterPARES 3 Project - Vancouver, BC, Canada Modeling Ranganathan's Classification Theory Using IDEF0 Formalism (2010) Research Conversations, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Report on Metadata Developments (1): Interoperability Across Systems, Time, and Conceptions (2010) International Symposium, InterPARES 3 Project - Oslo, Norway Things Change. The Ontogenetics of Class Populations in Vocabularies (2010) Semantic Web in Biomedicine Seminar, Biomedical and Health Informatics, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Engaged Knowledge Organization: A Rationale, Background, and Agenda for Work (2009) Annual Conference, Track 2: Knowledge Organization, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Joao Pessoa, Brazil 2008@myStuffWicked and [within double rules] An Account | OF | VIRTUE: | OR, | Dr. Henry More's | ABRIDGEMENT | OF | MORALS, | Put into Engli?h. ||: The Landscape of Contemporary Resource Description (2008) Bridge Consortium, Carleton College/St. Olaf College - Northfield, MN Going through the motions: The process and product of tagging (2008) Athenaeum Panel Presentation, Carleton College - Northfield, MN Semantics on the web (2008) Guest Lecture, Carleton College - Northfield, MN Work-Thema, Theme-Nomen, and Group 3: Or What Is It All About? (2008) Annual Conference, ISKO - International Society for Knowledge Organization - Montreal, QC, Canada Epistemic Constructs in the Design, Study, and Critique of Knowledge Organization Structures (2007) International Conference, Information Resources Management Association - Vancouver, BC, Canada Metadados de documentos digitais: The InterPARES 2 Metadata Schema (2007) Seminrio Internacional de Documentos Digitais - Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Policies and Development of Contemporary Descriptive Practice: A Brave New World (2007) Annual Conference, British Columbia Library Association Conference - Burnaby, BC, Canada Semantic Carnival: Tagging and the New Descriptive Acts of the Next Generation Web (2007) Emerging Scholars: An iSchool PhD Alumni Lecture, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Concept evolution (subject ontogeny) in the NLM classification scheme: a case study (2006) Annual Conference, Canadian Health Libraries Association - Vancouver, BC, Canada Metadata and Description as seen in the InterPARES 2 Investigations and the Chain of Preservation Model of Electronic Records (2006) International Symposium on Electronic Records - Singapore Vocabularies (2006) Annual Conference, DCMA - Dublic Core and Metadata Applications - Manzanillo, Mexico Accessing and Managing e-Resources: a discussion (2005) E-Library Committee, University of British Columbia Library - Vancouver, BC, Canada InterPARES Findings and the GoC Records Management Metadata Standard and Application Profile (2005) Library and Archives Canada - Ottawa, CA What the Future Holds: Issues and Trends Impacting Cataloguers (2005) Annual Conference: From Scrolls to eBooks, BC Library Conference - Burnaby, BC, Canada iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
