iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Karen E. Fisher Karen E. Fisher CV Professor fisher@uw.edu 206-543-6238 Mary Gates Hall 330Q Fax: 206-616-3152 Affiliate Positions Adjunct Professor, University of Washington Department of Communication Visiting Professor, School of Media and Information (iSchool), University of Siegen, Germany Adjunct Professor, Informationsvetenskap, bo Akademi University, Turku, Finland Visiting Professor, The Open Lab, Newcastle University, UK Specializations Forced Migration Information in Everyday Life Digital Youth Research Areas Information and Society Digital Youth Courses LIS 586 - Public Libraries And Advocacy Biography Karen E. Fisher is a Professor at the Information School, and Adjunct Professor in the Communication Department at the University of Washington. She is also a Consultant (embedded field ethnographer) for UNHCR Jordan, Adjunct Professor, bo Akademi University, Turku, Finland, and Visiting Professor at the Information School, Siegen University, DE. An advocate of humanitarian research, her passion is how HCI-industry-NGO collaborations can help people displaced by conflict and build futures. Karens focus is the Syrian war and she works in the Levant, using design ethnography and other methods to increase literacy and education, livelihoods and social connectedness. Much of her work is at UNHCR Zaatari Camp in Jordan. Major missions include youth as ICT wayfarers, the Zaatari Camp Cookbooka multi-year co-design project with over 2000 Syrians about preserving indigenous knowledge of food, Arab medicine and culture; and Zaatari Camp Librariesthe worlds first, refugee-run, camp-wide library system. With colleagues she received a 2020 Google Inclusion Research Award to codesign social media/mobile privacy features and information literacy tools with Syrian girls based on the Quran and Arab culture.In the U.S., Dr. Fisher is working with Lauren Gambrill on the IMLS funded study "Trauma in the Library: Symptoms of PTSD among staff and Methods for Ensuring Trauma-Informed Care." Dr. Fisher is renowned for her development and use of theory and methods for understanding information problems, specifically on how people experience information as part of everyday life, with emphasis on the interpersonal aspects and the role of informal social settings or Information Grounds. With colleagues Karen has spearheaded several landmark projects, including the U.S. Impact Study (with Crandall and Becker) of how people use technology in public libraries across the U.S. Her Theories of Information Behavior (2005, with S. Erdelez & L. McKechnie) remains the top-selling monograph at www.ASIST.org, with numerous papers in most cited lists about how people engage with information. With a PhD in Information Science from the University of Western Ontario and Post Doc from the University of Michigan, supporters of Karens work include the UNHCR, Facebook, Google, the National Science Foundation, Amazon, the LEGO Foundation, Microsoft, the Institute of Museum and Library Services, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the United Way, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Education Post Doc, Information Science, University of Michigan, 1999 Ph D, Library & Information Science, University of Western Ontario, 1997 MLIS, University of Western Ontario, 1991 BA, Memorial University of Newfoundland, 1989 Awards 2021 International Joy of Reading Award - Systematic, 2021-2021 ASIS&T SIG USE Outstanding Contribution Award - ASIS&T, 2016 Consulting and Other Projects UNHCR, Jordan, 2015 Memberships American Library Association American Society for Information Science & Technology Association for Computing Machinery International Association for Studies of Forced Migration Publications and Contributions Book, Non-Scholarly-New Zaatari: Food & Stories from the Syrian People of Zaatari Camp (2021) Author: Karen Fisher Magazine/Trade Publication Bringing Books to the Desert: For Syrian Refugees, A Network of Libraries and Literacy (2020) American Libraries Magazine Authors: Karen Fisher, The Zaatari Camp Librarians Magazine/Trade Publication Co-Designing on the Jordanian-Syrian Border: How 2,000 Syrian Refugees Created the Za'atari Camp Cookbook (2020) ACM Interactions Author: Karen Fisher Conference Paper Co-Designing with the Iman in a Haram Digital World: Drawing on the Quran and Sunnah to Support Peoples Privacy and Information Practices (2020) CHI 2020, Arab Islamic HCI Workshop Authors: Karen Fisher, E. Yafi, K. S. Khan Workshop Paper Where is your Caravan? A Conversation about Humanitarian Research, Giving Back and the Role of Fixers in Studying Refugees and the Syrian War (2020) ECSCW Workshop on Messy Ethnography Authors: Karen Fisher, S. Falioun Conference Paper Al Osool: Understanding information behavior for community development at Zaatari Syrian refugee camp (2019) Proceedings of ACM 9th International Conference on Communities and Technologies Authors: Karen Fisher, E. Yafi, C. Maitland, Y. Xu Conference Paper Humanitarian Research and the Syrian War: HCI for Resilience (2019) With an Eye to the Future: HCI Practice and Research in the Arab World (Arab HCI) Authors: Karen Fisher, E. Yafi Conference Paper Read, UNHCR Zaatari Camp Libraries: A Nascent Refugee-Run System on the Syrian Border (2019) ALA Annual Conference: Library Research Round Table (LRRT) Authors: Karen Fisher, R. Sass Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Refugee women forging resilience (2019) Art & Therapy, Empowering Women through Painting Jordan, pp. 226-227 Author: Karen Fisher Conference Paper Refugees & HCI: Situating HCI Within Humanitarian Research (2019) Proceedings of the 37th annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems (CHI 19) Authors: Reem Talhouk, Karen Fisher, Kyle Montague, Suleman Shahid, Konstantin Aal, Anne Weibert, Mike Krieger, Ana Duarte, Volker Wulf, Franziska Tachtler, Syed Ishtiaque Conference Paper Refugees & HCI: Situating HCI Within Humanitarian Research (2019) CHI 2019 Authors: Karen Fisher, R. Talhouk, K. Montague, S. Shahid, K. Aal, A. Weibert, M. Krieger, A. Duarte, V. Wulf, F. Tachtler, S. Ahmed Conference Paper UNHCR Zaatari Camp Libraries: Building Futures for Syrian Women and Girls (2019) Women, Information, & Libraries Special Interest Group in Partnership with Libraries without Borders, IFLA 2019, International Federation of Library Associations Authors: Karen Fisher, Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Information worlds of refugees (2018) Digital Lifeline? ICTs for Refugees and Displaced Persons Author: Karen Fisher Journal Article, Professional Journal Library Story Time and other Library Services at Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan (invited, 2-3 part article) (2018) Library Journal Author: Karen Fisher Journal Article, Public or Trade Journal The best, the worst and hardest to find: How people, mobiles, and social media connect migrants in(to) Europe (2018) Social Media + Society, Special Issue Forced migration and digital connectivity in(to) Europe Authors: M. Borkert, Karen Fisher, E. Yafi Conference Paper Young hackers: Hacking technology at Zaatari Refugee Camp (2018) ACM CHI Authors: E. Yafi, K. Yefimova, Karen Fisher Conference Paper Al Asool at UNHCR Zaatari Camp: An asset-based field study of people, place and time (2017) Canadian 10th Annual Conference of the Canadian Association for Refugee and Forced Migration Studies (CARFMS), Centre for Asia-Pacific Initiatives Migration and Mobility Program, University of Victoria Authors: Karen Fisher, I. Omondi, E. Yafi, Z. Abdulmajid, K. Yefimova Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Seattle Public Library as place: Reconceptualizing space, community, and information at the central library [Reprinted from earlier work] (2017) Take one building: Interdisciplinary research perspectives of the Seattle Central Library, pp. 135-160 Authors: Karen Fisher, Matthew Saxton, P. M. Edwards, J.-E. Mai Conference Paper Zaatari Refugee Cookbook: Relevance, Challenges and Design Considerations (2017) CHI 2017 Authors: Karen Fisher, R. Talhouk, Katya Yefimova, D. Al-Shahrabi, E. Yafi, S. Ewalk, S. Comber Conference Paper Ray of Sunshine Happiness Gun and other apps in pursuit of social justice: Teens designs from Philadelphia. (2017) iConference 2017 Authors: Karen Fisher, M. Martens, A. Petersen-Kemp, E. Meyers Conference Paper Adapting design thinking and cultural probes to the experiences of immigrant youth: Uncovering the roles of visual media and music in ICT wayfaring (2016) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '16) Authors: Karen Fisher, Katya Yefimova, Ann Peterson Bishop White Paper Digital Youth Seattle Think Tank White Paper (2016) Authors: Karen Fisher, Katharine Davis, Jason Yip, Negin Dahya, Joanna Elizabeth Mills, Michael Eisenberg Technical Report Final Report to UNHCR Jordan: Information-enabled Community Engagement and Asset Mapping at Zaatari Camp (2016) Authors: C. Maitland, Karen Fisher, B. Tomaszewski, Y. Xu Conference Paper Futures Butterflies: Co-Designing ICT Wayfaring Technology with Refugee Syrian Youth (2016) IDC '16: Proceedings of the The 15th International Conference on Interaction Design and Children Authors: Karen Fisher, Katya Yefimova, E. Yafi Conference Paper HCI, forced migration and refugees: Collaborations across borders and fields (2016) CHI 2016 Development Consortium 2016: HCI Across Borders Authors: Karen Fisher, Katya Yefimova, Negin Dahya, Eiad Yafi, Elizabeth M. Belding, Maren Borkert, Guanghua Chi, Arul Chib, Claire Cravero, Dana Diminescu, Oliver Farshi, Kathie Friedman, Pete Giencke, Vikki Katz, Paul Schmitt, Nguyen T. Hoan, Jeff Wishnie, Volker Wolf Conference Poster ICTD for Forced Migration & Refugees (2016) ACM CHI International Conference on Information & Communication Technologies and Development 2016 Authors: E. Yafi, Karen Fisher, C. Maitland, A. Chib Technical Report IMLS Final Report: Ethnic Minority Teens as Lay Information-Technical Mediaries: A Mixed-Methods Study of Patterns and Nuances for Designing Services in Public Libraries (2016) Authors: Karen Fisher, A. P. Bishop Book, Chapter in Textbook-New InfoMe case study: Design research with immigrant and refugee youth in Seattle (2016) Community-based qualitative research: Approaches for education and the social sciences Authors: A. Bishop, Karen Fisher Conference Poster The best, the worst and hardest to find: How people, mobiles, and social media connect migrants in(to) Europe (2016) Association of Internet Researchers (AoIR) Authors: M. Borkert, Karen Fisher, E. Yafi, Katya Yefimova Conference Poster Digital youth as global wayfarers (2015) ACM Information Communication Technology for Development (ICTD) 2015 Authors: Karen Fisher, Ann P Bishop, Ban Al-Ani Conference Workshop Paper Digital youth research network: Defining the field, building connections, and exploring collaborations (2015) iConference 2015 Authors: Beth Juncker, Eric Meyers, Marianne Martens, Gitte Balling, Karen Fisher, Ross Todd Conference Workshop Paper IDC Course: Interaction design with immigrant and refugee teens (2015) ACM SIGCHI Interaction Design and Children (IDC) 2015 Authors: Karen Fisher, A. P. Bishop Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Information communities (2015) Information services today: An introduction, pp. 20-26 Authors: Karen Fisher, Ann Bishop Conference Paper Using ICT design to learn about immigrant teens from Myanmar (2015) Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) Authors: A. P. Bishop, Karen Fisher Technical Report Youth Mobile Phone and Internet Use January 2015 Zaatari Camp, Mafraq, Jordan. Report to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2015) Authors: C. Maitland, B. Tomaszewski, E. Belding, Karen Fisher, Y. Xu, D. Iland, P. Schmitt, A. Majid Conference Workshop Paper Youth perspectives on equity, access and information exchange in educational technology: Implications for research, practice, and policy (2015) Workshop, Digital Media & Learning Conference Authors: Katharine Davis, Karen Fisher, Negin Dahya, Jason Yip, Michael Eisenberg, Joanna Elizabeth Mills Conference Short Paper Action! Co-designing interactive technology with immigrant teens (2014) ACM SIGCHI Interaction Design and Children (IDC) 2014 Authors: Karen Fisher, A P Bishop, Lassana Magassa, Philip Fawcett Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New InfoMe: A Field-design methodology for research on ethnic minority youth as information mediaries (2014) New directions in childrens and adolescents information behavior research, pp. 135-156 Authors: Karen Fisher, Ann Bishop, Philip Fawcett, Lassana Magassa Conference Workshop Paper Teaching teen co-design: What belongs in a curriculum? (2014) Workshop on Curriculum or Not Show Us How You Teach Interaction Design and Children! ACM SIGCHI Interaction Design and Children (IDC) 2014 Authors: Karen Fisher, A P Bishop, Lassana Magassa, Philip Fawcett Journal Article, Academic Journal A social diffusion model of misinformation and disinformation for understanding human information behavior (2013) Information Research Authors: N Karlova, Karen Fisher Conference Paper Displaced persons during times of disaster and crisis: InfoMe and Information Grounds (2013) NSF DPEW Author: Karen Fisher Conference Paper InfoMe @ teen design days: A multi-variable, design thinking approach to community development (2013) ICTD 2013: International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies for Development Authors: Karen Fisher, A Bishop, Lassana Magassa, Philip Fawcett Book, Scholarly-New InfoMe: A field-design methodology for research on ethnic minority youth as information mediaries (2013) New Directions in Children and Adolescents Information Behavior Research Authors: Karen Fisher, A Bishop, Lassana Magassa, Philip Fawcett Journal Article, Academic Journal Teaching human information behavior: Report from the first ISIC international workshop with pedagogical examples for engaging students via Information Grounds and Lay Information Mediary fieldwork (2013) Information Research Authors: Karen Fisher, S Erdelez Conference Paper Teen Design Days: Engaging Youth in Information Literacy through Design Thinking (2013) European Council on Information Literacy 2013 Authors: Karen Fisher, A Bishop, Lassana Magassa, Philip Fawcett Conference Paper #misdis: A social network diffusion model of misinformation and disinformation (2012) Sunbelt XXXII: The Annual Meeting of the International Network for Social Network Analysis Authors: N Karlova, Karen Fisher Conference Paper Designing for youth across the gulf: Fishbowl on how today's methods, theory and findings can support tomorrow's designs (2011) Proceedings of the American Society for Information Science & Technology 74th Annual Meeting Authors: Karen Fisher, Eliza Dresang Research Report Opportunity for All: How Library Policies and Practices Impact Public Internet Access (2011) Authors: Samantha Becker, Michael Crandall, Karen Fisher, R Blakewood, B Kinney, C Russell-Sauve Conference Poster Health information seeking and lay health information mediaries "at" the public library: Preliminary results from a nationwide, mixed method study on U.S. public library public computing (PAC) access and its impact on individuals, families, and communities (2010) Authors: Karen Fisher, J. A. Abrahamson, Michael Crandall, Samantha Becker Conference Paper Measuring indirect access: Indicators of the impacts of lay information mediary behavior (2010) 2010 IFLA World Library and Information Congress Authors: Christopher Coward, Karen Fisher Journal Article, Academic Journal Mobile Social Networking as Information Ground: A Case Study (2010) Library & Information Science Research, 32(2), pp. 98-115 Authors: Karen Fisher, S. Counts Research Report Opportunity for All: How the American public benefits from Internet access at the public library (2010) pp. 103 Authors: Samantha Becker, Michael Crandall, Karen Fisher, B Kinney, Carol Landry, A. Rocha Conference Paper South-North: Fishbowl on transferability of ICTs in income-poor to income-rich countries (2010) ICTD 2010: International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development Authors: Christopher Coward, Karen Fisher Conference Paper eGovernment services use and impact through public libraries: Preliminary findings from a national study of public access computing in public libraries (2010) Proceedings of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, ISBN/ISSN: 978-0769538693 Authors: Karen Fisher, S Becker, Michael Crandall Journal Article, Professional Journal Celebrating 10 years of SIG USE: Information Behavior Research, SIG USE 1990-2009 (2009) Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology Authors: Karen Fisher, H. Julien Journal Article, Academic Journal Communicating the Impact of Free Access to Computers and the Internet in Public Libraries: A Mixed Methods Approach to Developing Outcome Indicators (2009) Public Library Quarterly, 28(2), pp. 109-119 Authors: Samantha Becker, Michael Crandall, Karen Fisher Journal Article, Academic Journal Communicating the Impact of Free Access to Computers and the Internet in Public Libraries: A Mixed Methods Approach to Developing Outcome Indicators (2009) Public Library Quarterly, 28(2) Authors: Samantha Becker, Michael Crandall, Karen Fisher Conference Poster Communities Connect Network: Advancing e-Inclusion in Washington State through Community Technology (2009) iConference Authors: Michael Crandall, Karen Fisher, Carol Landry Book Editor, Scholarly Digital Inclusion: Communicating Impact through Practice and Research (2009) Authors: Michael Crandall, Karen Fisher Conference Paper Free access to computers and the Internet at public libraries: International reflections on outcomes and methods (2009) Annual Meeting of the American Society for Information Science & Technology Authors: Karen Fisher, Christopher Coward, Philip Fawcett, Michael Crandall, Ricardo Gomez Conference Paper ICTD evaluation 20/20: Voices from around the world (2009) IEEE/ACM International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) Authors: Karen Fisher, Ricardo Gomez, Christopher Coward Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Information behavior (2009) Annual Review of Information Science & Technology, 43(Unknown Issue), pp. 317-358, ISBN/ISSN: 978-1573873406 Authors: Karen Fisher, H. Julien Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia Information needs: Conceptual and empirical developments (2009) Encyclopedia of Library and Information Science,, pp. 5742, ISBN/ISSN: 978-0849397127 Authors: Karen Fisher, C. M. Naumer Journal Article, Professional Journal Making sense of an information world: The everyday life information behavior of preteens (2009) Library Quarterly, 79(3), pp. 301-341, ISBN/ISSN: 0024-2519 Authors: Karen Fisher, E. M. Meyers, Elizabeth Marcoux Journal Article, Professional Journal Lay information mediary behavior (LIMB) uncovered: Exploring how nonprofessionals seek health information for themselves and others online (2008) Journal of the Medical Library Association, 96(4), pp. 310-323, ISBN/ISSN: 1536-5050 Authors: Karen Fisher, J. A. Abrahamson, A. T. Turner, J. C. Durrance, T. Turner Conference Paper Mobile social networking: An information grounds perspective (2008) Proceedings of Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Authors: Karen Fisher, S. Counts Journal Article, Academic Journal "What's past is prologue:" Towards a general model of lay information mediary behaviour (2007) Information Research, 12(4) Authors: Karen Fisher, J. Abramhamson Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Field methods for investigating personal information management (2007) Personal information management, pp. 76-88 Authors: Karen Fisher, Charles Naumer Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Seattle Public Library as place: Reconceptualizing space, community, and information at the central library (2007) Library as Place: History, community and culture, pp. 135-160 Authors: Karen Fisher, Matthew Saxton, P. M. Edwards, J-E Mai Journal Article, Academic Journal Social spaces, casual interactions, meaningful exchanges: An information ground typology based on the college student experience (2007) Information Research, 12(2) Authors: Karen Fisher, Carol Landry, Charles Naumer Journal Article, Academic Journal Studying the everyday information behavior of tweens: Notes from the field (2007) Library & Information Science Research, 29(3), pp. 310-331 Authors: Karen Fisher, E. M. Meyers, Elizabeth Marcoux Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Tweens and everyday life information behavior: Preliminary findings from Seattle (2007) Youth information seeking behaviors: Contexts, theories, models and issues, 2(Unknown Issue), pp. 1-25 Authors: Karen Fisher, Elizabeth Marcoux, E. Meyers, Carol Landry Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Understanding the information behavior of stay-at-home mothers through affect (2007) Information and emotion: The emergent affective paradigm in information behavior research and theory, pp. 211-233 Authors: Karen Fisher, Carol Landry Journal Article, Academic Journal 2-1-1 Information Services: Outcomes Assessment, Benefits-Cost Analysis, and Policy Issues (2006) Government Information Quarterly, 23(3), pp. 186-215 Authors: Matthew Saxton, Charles Naumer, Karen Fisher Conference Abstract Building Bridges between Information Behavior Research and Information Architecture (2006) Proceedings of the American Society for Information Science and Technology Authors: David G. Hendry, Karen Fisher, J. E. Mai Journal Article, Academic Journal Civic problem-solving viewed as an information use environment (2006) Information Research, 11(4) Authors: Karen Fisher, J. C. Durrance, M. Souden, D. Walker Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Information grounds: Theoretical basis and empirical findings on information flow in social settings (2006) New directions in human information behavior, pp. 93-111 Authors: Karen Fisher, Charles Naumer Journal Article, Professional Journal Social types in technical newsgroups: Implications for information flow (2006) International Journal of Communications Law and Policy, 11(Unknown Issue) Authors: Karen Fisher, T. C. Turner Conference Paper The impact of social types within information communities: Findings from technical newsgroups (2006) HICSS - Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Authors: Karen Fisher, T. C. Turner Conference Paper The role of community-based, problem-centered information intermediaries in local problem solving (2006) Proceedings of the American Society for Information Science and Technology Authors: Karen Fisher, J. C. Durrance, D. Walker, M. Souden Research Report Final IMLS report: Approaches for understanding community information use: A framework for identifying and applying knowledge of information behavior in public libraries (2005) Authors: Karen Fisher, Charles Naumer, J. C. Durrance Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Information Grounds (2005) Theories of information behavior, pp. 185-190 Author: Karen Fisher Journal Article, Academic Journal Something old, something new: Preliminary findings from an exploratory study about people's information habits and information grounds (2005) Information Research, 10(2) Authors: Karen Fisher, Charles Naumer, J. C. Durrance, L. Stromski, T. Christiansen Book, Reprint in Translation Theories of Information Behavior (2005) pp. 431 Editors: Karen Fisher, S. Erdelez, E. F. Mckechnie Book Editor, Scholarly Theories of Information Behavior (2005) ISBN/ISSN: 978-1573872300 Editors: Karen Fisher, S. Erdelez, E. F. Mckechnie Research Report WIN 2-1-1: Performance Evaluation and Cost-Benefit Analysis of 2-1-1 I&R Systems (2005) Authors: Karen Fisher, Matthew Saxton, Charles Naumer Book, Scholarly-New How libraries and librarians help: A guide to identifying user-centered outcomes (2004) pp. 192, ISBN/ISSN: 978-0838908921 Authors: Karen Fisher, J. C. Durrance Book, Non-Scholarly-New Online community information: Creating a nexus at your library (2002) pp. 191, ISBN/ISSN: 978-0838908235 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Journal Article, Professional Journal Surveying the use of theory in library and information science research: A disciplinary perspective (2002) Library Trends, 50(3), pp. 406-417 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, L. M. McKechnie Journal Article, Academic Journal The final context: Information behavior surrounding the dying patient (2002) New Review of Information Behavior Research, 3(Unknown Issue), pp. 175-186 Authors: Karen E. Fisher-Pettigrew, J. Donat Journal Article, Professional Journal Toward developing measures of the impact of library and information services (2002) Reference and User Services Quarterly, 42(1), pp. 43-53 Authors: Karen E. Fisher-Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Conference Paper Towards effective evaluation of digital community information systems (2002) ASIS&T Annual Meeting, pp. 250-259 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, K. T. Unruh, J. C. Durrance Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Conceptual frameworks in information behavior (2001) Annual Review of Information Science & Technology, 35(Unknown Issue), pp. 43-78 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, Raya Fidel, Harry Bruce Journal Article, Academic Journal How libraries and librarians help: Toward context-centered methods for evaluating public library networked community information initiatives (2001) First Monday Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Research Report IMLS Final Report: Help-seeking in an electronic world: The impact of electronic access to community information on citizens' information behavior and public libraries. (2001) Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Journal Article, Academic Journal KALIPER: Introduction and overview of results (2001) Journal of Education for Library and Information Science, 42(1), pp. 170-180 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Libraries and civil society (2001) Libraries & democracy: The cornerstone of democracy, pp. 49-59 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance, M. Jourdan, K. Scheurer Conference Paper Public use of digital community information systems: Findings from a recent study with implications for system design (2001) Proceedings of the 1st ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digital libraries, pp. 136-143 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Journal Article, Academic Journal The use of theory in information science research (2001) Journal of the American Society for Information Science & Technology, 52(1), pp. 62-73 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, L. M. McKechnie Journal Article, Professional Journal Community information: The technological touch (2000) Library Journal, 125(2), pp. 44-46 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia KALIPER: Final results (2000) 2000 Bowker Annual: Library and Book Trade Almanac, Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Journal Article, Professional Journal Lay information provision in community settings: How community health nurses disseminate human services information to the elderly (2000) Library Quarterly, 70(1), pp. 47-85 Author: Karen E. Pettigrew Journal Article, Academic Journal The origins and contextual use of theory in human information behavior research (2000) The New Review of Information Behaviour Research: Studies of Information Seeking in Context, 2(Unknown Issue), pp. 47-63 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, L. E.F. McKechnie, S. Joyce Conference Paper Agents of information: The role of community health nurses in linking the elderly with local resources by providing human services information (1999) pp. 257-276 Author: Karen E. Pettigrew Journal Article, Academic Journal Approaches to studying public library Internet initiatives: A review of the literature and overview of a current study (1999) Library & Information Science Research, 21(3), pp. 327-360 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance, P. Vakkari Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia KALIPER: A look at library and information science education at the turn of a new century (1999) 1999 Bowker Annual: Library and Book Trade Almanac,, pp. 266-281 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, J. C. Durrance Journal Article, Professional Journal Theories for practitioners: Two frameworks for studying consumer health information-seeking behavior (1999) Bulletin of the Medical Library Association, 87(4), pp. 444-50 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, L. M. Baker Journal Article, Professional Journal Waiting for chiropody: Contextual results from an ethnographic study of the information behavior among attendees at community clinics (1999) Information Processing & Management, 35(6), pp. 801-817 Author: Karen E. Pettigrew Conference Paper Theories for the new millennium: The deployment of theory in LIS research (1998) pp. 125-142 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, L. McKechnie Conference Paper A general model of the information seeking of professionals: Role theory through the back door? (1997) pp. 99-110 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, G. J. Leckie Conference Paper Frameworks for studying information behavior: A unit theory specification of Granovetter's strength of weak ties (1997) pp. 131-154 Author: Karen E. Pettigrew Journal Article, Professional Journal Control of community information: An analysis of roles (1996) Library Quarterly, 66(4), pp. 373-407 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, M. A. Wilkinson Journal Article, Professional Journal Modelling the information seeking of professionals: A general model derived from research on engineers, health care professionals, and lawyers (1996) Library Quarterly, 66(2), pp. 161-193 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, G. J. Leckie, C. Sylvain Journal Article, Academic Journal Nurses' perceptions of their needs for community information: Results of an exploratory study in southwestern Ontario (1996) Journal of Education for Library and Information Science, 37(4), pp. 351-360 Author: Karen E. Pettigrew Journal Article, Professional Journal Controlling the quality of community information: An analysis of the effects on dissemination of the differences between I&R agencies and community networks (1994) Information & Referral, 16(Unknown Issue), pp. 185-194 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, M. A. Wilkinson Journal Article, Academic Journal Publication patterns of LIS faculty from 1982- 1992: Effects of doctoral programs (1994) Library & Information Science Research, 16(Unknown Issue), pp. 139-156 Authors: Karen E. Pettigrew, P. T. Nicholls Journal Article, Professional Journal Foreign and domestic periodicals price index for Canada 1991: The first survey (1991) Canadian Library Journal, 48(4), pp. 255-261 Authors: K. Dicker (Pettigrew), C. Bell, A. M. Watson Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-Revised Information Communities Information Services Today: An Introduction, 3rd Ed., Information Today Authors: Karen Fisher, C. Fulton Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Information sharing among refugees ICTs for Refugees and Displaced Persons Author: Karen Fisher Journal Article, Professional Journal Library Caravans: How Zaatari Camps Librarians Serve Community Needs Library Journal Authors: Karen Fisher, R. Sass, Book, Scholarly-New Theories in motion: Using information experience theory to design policy, applications and practice Authors: S Erdelez, Karen Fisher Presentations Migration and (re)Settlement: Furthering the iResearch Agenda (2021) iConference 2021, Renmin University of China - Beijing, China Research in the Time of Corona: Choosing Agendas as World Divides Deepen (2021) European Chapter of the Association for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&T-EC) Information Science Trends Conference - Virtual #Forced Migration and @ethical_research: Moving the Agenda Forward (2020) iConference 2020 - Boras, Sweden, The Diversity Mindset: A Guiding Principle for Leadership in the Information Fields (2020) 2020 Virtual ALISE Academy - Virtual The importance and relevance of food in preserving cultural heritage (2020) Academy of Urbanism (AoU)-Urban Design Group (UDG) Lessons from the Middle East Symposium - Virtual Data & Design Methods for Supporting Crisis Informatics in Conflict Zones (2019) Facebook Crisis Informatics - Menlo Park, California Ideation in refugee camps for innovation and marketplace (2019) Amazon Ideas Group - Seattle, Washington Integration, resettlement and repatriation: Studying the information landscapes of refugees (2019) Conceptions of Library and Information Sciences (CoLIS) - Ljubljana, Slovenia Reflections on Abo Akademie Minority Program (2019) Abo Akademie University - Turku, Finland When You Can't Go Home Again: Refugee and Exile Authors in the U.S. (2019) ALA Annual Conference - Washington, DC How libraries abroad address the worldwide refugee crisis (2018) Annual Meeting of the American Library Association - New Orleans, LA Lives in the balance: Conversations on reflective research and practice in information provision and information needs of refugees and asylum seekers (2018) 17th conference of the International Association for the Study of Forced Migration (IASFM) - Thessaloniki, Greece Pathways from Crisis to Resilience: Field Insights from Longitudinal Ethnography with Syrian Refugees in Jordan (2018) The Institute for Societal Resilience Faculteit der Sociale Wetenschappen: Hidden Narratives: From Crisis Response to Social Resilience, Theoretical Perspectives - Amsterdam, Netherlands Role of Social Media Tools and Effects of Gender in Conflict Zones (2018) Media, Technologies, CooperationRethinking publics and publicness in the MENA region - Siegen, Germany Syrian youth in Za'atari Refugee Camp as ICT wayfarers: An exploratory study using narrative storytelling and LEGO (2018) ACM CompaSS 2018 - Menlo Park, CA Young hackers: Hacking technology at Za'atari Refugee Camp (2018) ACM CHI - Montreal, Canada Al Asool at UNHCR Zaatari Camp: An asset-based field study of people, place and time (2017) Forgotten Corridors: Global Displacement & the Politics of Engagement: Canadian 10th Annual Conference of the Canadian Association for Refugee and Forced Migration Studies (CARFMS), Centre for Asia-Pacific Initiatives Migration and Mobility Program, University of Victoria - Victoria, BC, Canada Beyond WiFi: How Syrian Teens Hack Futures at UNHCR Zaatari Refugee Camp (2017) Paper presented at the 3M Workshop of Migrants, Marginalization and Mobile, Nanyang Technological University - Singapore Beyond WiFi: How Syrian Teens Hack Futures at UNHCR Zaatari Refugee Camp (2017) 3M Workshop of Migrants, Marginalization and Mobiles. Singapore Internet Research Centre, Nanyang Technological University - Singapore Beyond WiFi: How Syrian Teens Hack Futures at UNHCR Zaatari Refugee Camp (2017) Canadian Embassy - Amman, Jordan Co-designing library services with refugees: A Design Thinking Approach (2017) IFLA World Library and Information Congress (WLIC). Libraries. Solidarity. Society. 83rd IFLA General Conference and Assembly - Wrocaw, Poland Creating Futures through Magical Devices and Library Caravans: Participatory Design with Syrian Youth at Zaatari Refugee Camp (2017) Helsinki Public Library - Helsinki, Finland Creating Futures through Magical Devices and Library Caravans: Participatory Design with Syrian Youth at Zaatari Refugee Camp (2017) Nordic PhD Symposium and Akershus University College - Oslo, Norway Designing Community-Based LIS Research Focused on Youth in the MENA Region (2017) American Library Association Sharjah Library Conference Book Fair - Sharjah, United Arab Emirates Information worlds of refugees: Findings from Middle East and Germany (2017) Berlin School of Library and Information Science, Humboldt University - Berlin, Germany Library Caravans and Ideas Boxes at UNHCR Zaatari Camp, Jordan (2017) IFLA World Library and Information Congress (WLIC). Libraries. Solidarity. Society. 83rd IFLA General Conference and Assembly - Wrocaw, Poland Refugees & HCI workshop: The role of HCI in responding to the refugee crisis (2017) CHI 2017 (Withdrawn due to U.S. political situation; submitted and accepted for C&T in France, 2017) - Boulder, CO Refugees & HCI workshop: The role of HCI in responding to the refugee crisis (2017) Communities & Technologies - Troyes, France Refugees + Libraries: Helping Build Better Futures (2017) American Library Association Sharjah Library Conference Book Fair - Sharjah, United Arab Emirates Stand #WithRefugees: Workshop on Field and Design Methods for Supporting Refugees through Library Services and Other Social and Policy Innovations (2017) iConference 2017 - Wuhan, China Stand #WithRefugees: Workshop on Fieldwork and Design Methods for Forced Migration (2017) iConference 2017 - Wuhan, China The value of a smart phone and things theyd have done differently: Information pitfalls and plans for the future of Syrian refugees in a Berlin Camp (2017) 10th Annual Conference of the Canadian Association for Refugee and Forced Migration Studies (CARFMS), Centre for Asia-Pacific Initiatives Migration and Mobility Program, University of Victoria - Victoria, British Columbia, Canada The Zaatari Refugee Camp Cookbook: How space, gender and time affect information behavior. Keynote Lecture (2017) Conference on Integration in Cooperation: Developing Information Services for Refugees in Collaboration with Key Actors. bo Akademi University (AU) - Turku, Finland Creating Futures through Magical Devices and Library Caravans: Participatory Design with Syrian Youth at Za'atari Refugee Camp (2016) University of Washington-Tacoma - Tacoma, WA Design and field insights with refugees in camps by conflict zones (2016) Open Lab, Newcastle University - Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK Design and field insights with refugees in camps by conflict zones. International Conference: Migration in a turbulent world (2016) ISA Research Committee on the Sociology of Migration RC31 - Doha, Qatar Designing library services to assist refugees with integration into the EU (2016) Helsinki Public Library - Finland Future Builders: Magical Devices and Start-ups by Syrian Youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Refugee Camp (2016) Google Kids and Families Team, Crisis Response Team, Verily, Alphabet - Mountain View, CA Future Builders: Magical Devices and Start-ups by Syrian Youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Refugee Camp (2016) Amazon - Seattle, WA Future butterflies and builders of Syria: Community capacity building through people, libraries and technology at the Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp (2016) Global Libraries and Electronic Medical Records (EMR), Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation - Seattle, WA ICTD for Forced Migration & Refugees (2016) ACM CHI Information Computers Technology and Development 2016, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI Information Worlds of Refugees: Workshop on Fieldwork and Design Methods with Displaced Populations by Conflict Zones (2016) ISA Research Committee on the Sociology of Migration RC31 - Doha, Qatar Peace Robots: Creating Futures with Syrian Youth at Zaatari Refugee Camp (2016) Canadian Embassy - Washington, DC Post-conference Youth Networking Workshop: Engaging Youth through Digital Solutions (2016) An initiative of the Center for Public Health Practice (CPHP) and the Center for Research on Population and Health (CRPH), American University of Beirut - Beirut, Lebanon Supporting forced migrants through information: Insights from Zaatari and Berlin (2016) Nordic PhD Symposium, Oslo and Akershus University College - Norway Teen Design Day on Co-Designing Technology to Support Social Justice with Free Library of Philadelphia + iConference Interactive Peer Debriefing (2016) iConference 2016 - Philadelphia, PA Teen Design Day on Co-Designing Technology to Support Social Justice with Free Library of Philadelphia + iConference Interactive Peer Debriefing (2016) iConference 2016 - Philadelphia, PA The commodification of information among Arab migrants: Journeys to Europe, price by bit (2016) Minority Research Annual Seminar, bo Akademi University - Finland Wayfaring technologies for youth at UNHCR Zaatari Camp, Jordan (2016) National Science Foundation Workshop on Information and Communication Technologies for Displacement II - Washington, DC Zaatari Camp at the Jordanian-Syrian border: Redefining connectivity, encapsulation and cosmopolitanism (2016) Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie Van Wetenschappen (Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, KNAW) colloquium - Amsterdam, Netherlands Circling the gap with Syrian youth at the Al-Zatari refugee camp, Jordan: Stories for supporting infomediary design (2015) Digital Youth Workshop, iConference 2015 - Newport Beach, CA Digital youth: The state of affairs (invited panelist) (2015) Digital Media and Learning - Los Angeles, CA Human Information Experience and Psychological Contexts (2015) Spring Convention, Washington State Psychological Association - Seattle, WA Immigrant youth as ICT wayfarers: 20 million reasons to better support schools, libraries, and society (2015) Scoil an Linn Eolais agus Cumarside, University College Dublin - Dublin, Ireland Immigrant youth as ICT wayfarers: 20 million reasons to better support schools, libraries, and society (2015) Partnership for Progress on the Digital Divide 2015 International Conference - Phoenix, AZ Keeping it Real: How Do You Find Yourand EveryonesEveryday Information? (2015) 2015 Annual Conference of the American Society of Indexers - Seattle, WA Seattle Digital Youth Think Tank 2014: Inaugural Reporting Out. (2015) Annual Meeting of the American Library Association - San Francisco, CA Seattle Digital Youth Think Tank 2014: Overview and White Paper Directions (2015) Digital Youth Workshop, iConference 2015 - Newport Beach, CA Syrian Youth as Infomediaries: Stories from UNHCR Zaatari Refugee Camp (2015) Digital Youth Workshop, iConference 2015 - Newport Beach, CA The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees -- Community Mobilization - Za'atari, Jordan The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees Security Taskforce - Za'atari, Jordan The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees Youth Services Taskforce - Za'atari, Jordan The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees Health Services Taskforce - Za'atari, Jordan The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees Youth Services Taskforce - Za'atari, Jordan The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees Protection Taskforce - Za'atari, Jordan The Mobile and Internet use of youth at the UNHCR Zaatari Syrian Refugee Camp, Jordan: Findings from January 2015 survey and design workshops (2015) UN Agency for Refugees Community Services - Za'atari, Jordan Developing theories and models in research: Where to begin (2014) ALISE 2014 Annual Conference - Philadelphia, PA Digital Youth - The State of Affairs (2014) Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science & Technology (ASIS&T) 2014 - Seattle, WA Digital Youth: Towards a new multidisciplinary research network (2014) Workshop conducted at the annual iConference 2014 - Berlin, Germany InfoMe: Theory and methods for working with youth (2014) Digital Youth Workshop, 2014 iConference - Berlin, Germany Information grounds as informal social settings for experiencing information: Factors of people, place, and information factors (2014) SFB/TR 8 Colloquium, Spatial Cognition Research Center, University of Bremen - Bremen, Germany Information grounds: Field workshop (2014) SFB/TR 8 Colloquium, Spatial Cognition Research Center, University of Bremen - Bremen, Germany Collaboration-the most wicked enabler to fabulously successful research (2013) QQML2013: 5th International Conference on Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Libraries, La Sapienza University - Rome, Italy Digital youth workshop: Calling all designers, researchers, and policy makers. Scholarship in action: data, innovation, wisdom (2013) iConference 2013 - Fort Worth, TX Human Information Experience in a Social World (2013) Opava, Czech Republic Info mediaries: How immigrant and refugee youth help others through information and technology (2013) i3 Conference: Information: Interactions and Impact, Robert Gordon University - Aberdeen, Scotland, United Kingdom InfoMe @ teen design days: A multi-variable, design thinking approach to community development (2013) ICTD 2013: International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies for Development - Cape Town, South Africa InfoMe: Forging new theory and methods to empower ethnic minority youth as info-mediaries (2013) CoLIS 8: Eighth International Conference on Conceptions of Library and Information Science - Copenhagen, Denmark Information Grounds: A Field Method and Design Workshop for Supporting how People Experience Everyday Information in Informal Social Settings (2013) Opava, Czech Republic Information Grounds: A field method and design workshop for supporting how people experience everyday information in informal social settings (2013) QQML2013: 5th International Conference on Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Libraries, La Sapienza University - Rome, Italy Methods, practice, theory: Researching Human information behavior in the context of migration. Scholarship in action: data, innovation, wisdom (2013) iConference 2013 - Fort Worth, TX Overview of the Digital Youth Summit 2014 (2013) Presentation to the MLIS Advisory Board, University of Washington Information School - Seattle, WA Teaching information behavior: Sharing global experiences (2013) ALISE ?13 Always the beautiful question: Inquiry supporting teaching, research and professional practice - Seattle, WA Teen design days: Promoting youth civic engagement through design thinking (2013) McArthur Digital Media & Learning Conference - Chicago, IL Using design thinking to empower ethnic minority immigrant youth in their roles as information and technology mediaries. Scholarship in action: data, innovation, wisdom (2013) iConference 2013 - Fort Worth, TX Using design thinking to empower ethnic minority immigrant youth in their roles as technology and information mediaries (2013) CHI 2013 Changing Perspectives. ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - Paris, France #misdis: A social network diffusion model of misinformation and disinformation (2012) Sunbelt XXXII: The Annual Meeting of the International Network for Social Network Analysis - Redondo Beach, CA A social diffusion model of misinformation and disinformation for understanding human information behavior (2012) ISIC 2012: The Information Behaviour Conference, Keio University - Tokyo, Japan Application of LIS research and theories to systems and services that respond to users? knowledge construction and sensemaking of information needs (2012) Information, interaction, innovation: Celebrating the past, constructing the present and creating the Future: 75th Annual Conference of the American Society for Information Science & Technology - Baltimore, MD Information grounds: Theory and methods for designing around information spaces (2012) School of Library & Information Studies, University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL Information grounds: Theory and methods for designing around information spaces (2012) University of Missouri - Columbia, MO Lay information-technical mediary behavior (LIMB): Incorporating field research in the classroom by drawing on the experiential (2012) ISIC 2012: The Information Behaviour Conference - Tokyo, Japan SIG USE 2012 Symposium on research methods for studying Information behavior (2012) Baltimore, MD Teen design days: lightning and enlightening (2012) 75th Annual Conference of the American Society for Information Science & Technology, SIG USE Research Symposium - Baltimore, MD U.S. Impact Study and Programs Supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Global Libraries Program (2012) Presentation to Program Officers, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Building usable large-scale datasets for accountability and advocacy in troubled times: The U.S. IMPACT Dataset (2011) Journal of Information Technology & Politics Conference 2011: The Future of Computational Social Science - Seattle, WA Designing for youth across the gulf: Fishbowl on how today?s methods, theory and findings can support tomorrow?s designs (2011) American Society Information Science & Technology Annual Meeting - New Orleans, LA Designing for youth across the gulf: How today's methods, theory and findings can support tomorrow's designs (2011) Bridging the Gulf: Communication and Information in Society, Technology, and Work, American Society for Information Science & Technology - New Orleans, LA Theories of information behavior in motion: Designing applications and practices (2011) iConference 2011:Inspiration, integrity, intrepedity - Seattle, WA Health information seeking and lay health information mediaries "at" the public library: Preliminary results from a nationwide, mixed method study on U.S. public library public computing (PAC) access and its impact on individuals, families, and communities (2010) Annual Meeting, Medical Library Association - Washington, DC Information literacy: The power and implications of lay information mediaries (2010) Annual Conference, LILAC - Librarians' Information Literacy Annual Conference - Limerick, Ireland Lay information mediary workshop (2010) Peer Learning Meeting, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Global Libraries Program - Helsinki, Finland Opportunity for All: American Public Benefits from Library Internet (2010) National Meeting, PLA - Public Library Association - Portland, OR Opportunity for All: American Public Benefits from Library Internet [online presentation] (2010) Webinar, WebJunction Opportunity for All: American Public Benefits from Library Internet [online presentation] (2010) International City/County Management Association webinar South->North: Fishbowl on transferability of ICTs in income-poor to income-rich countries (2010) Annual Conference, ICTD - International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (IEEE) - London, England, United Kingdom U.S. Impact Study: Overview (2010) Peer Learning Meeting, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Global Libraries Program - Helsinki, Finland Celebrating 10 years of SIG USE: Information Behavior Research, SIG USE 1990-2009 (2009) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Vancouver, BC, Canada Communities Connect: Community Technology Wildcard (2009) Annual Conference, iSchools Caucaus - Chapel Hill, NC Free access to computers and the Internet at public libraries: International reflections on outcomes and methods (2009) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Vancouver, BC, Canada Taylor's information use environments (IUEs) (2009) Bob Taylor: Ideas, Impact, and Remembrances. Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Teaching research methods in I-Schools (2009) Annual Conference, iSchools Caucaus - Chapel Hill, NC The Impact of Free Access to Computers and the Internet at Public Libraries (2009) International Conference, Community Indicators Consortium - Bellevue, WA East Coast, West Coast: Unifying Findings about Immigrants' Information Seeking and ICT Use (2008) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Columbus, OH How librarians and libraries help through public access computing (2008) U.S. Libraries Opportunity Online Program Meeting, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation - Anaheim, CA How libraries and librarians help through public access computing (2008) Queensland State Library - Brisbane, Australia Let's get wild: Building a national research and service agenda for community technologies and networking (2008) Annual Conference: Futures: Systems, Selves, Society, iSchools Caucus - Los Angeles, CA Mobile social networking: An information grounds perspective (2008) Annual Conference, HICSS - Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (IEEE) - Waikoloa, HI Modeling lay information mediary behavior: Implications for information services and health outcomes (2008) Annual Meeting, Medical Library Association - Chicago, IL Researching and meeting the needs of lay information mediaries and their muses (2008) Creating Knowledge Conference - Turku, Finland Sense-Making: A methodological perspective (2008) Annual Conference, Sensemaking Workshop, SIGCHI - Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (ACM) - Florence, Italy Showing the power of ICTs through outcome assessment: Lessons from Seattle (2008) Conference on "Online and Off to the Future for Nonprofits!", Connecting Up - Brisbane, Australia Teaching information behaviour (2008) Annual Conference, ISIC - Information Seeking in Context - Vilnius, Lithuania The Impact of Free Access to Computers & the Internet at Public Libraries (2008) Winter Quarter Meeting, ALUW - Association of Librarians of the University of Washington - Seattle, WA "Social types and personas: Typologies of persons on the web and designing for predictable behaviors." (2007) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Milwaukee, WI "What's past is prologue:" Towards a general model of lay information mediary behaviour (2007) International Conference on Conceptions of Library and Information Science: "Featuing the Future", Swedish School of Library and Information Science - Bor?s, Sweden DEVI: Empowering women through mobile technology. (2007) Microsoft TechFest - Redmond, WA Pink, waterproof, and scented: Designing mobile technology for women (2007) iEdge Conference, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Seattle Public Library as "place": Community building and impact (2007) Annual Conference, LIDA - Libraries in the Digital Age - Dubrovnik, Croatia Shop and talk: Supporting women's nurturing and providing roles through mobile technology (2007) Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing Conference, Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology - Orlando, FL Being user-oriented:Convergences, divergences, and the potentials for systematic dialogue between disciplines and between researchers, designers, and providers. Panel organized by B. Dervin. (2006) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Austin, TX Civic problem-solving viewed as an information use environment (2006) Annual Conference, ISIC - Information Seeking in Context - Sydney, Australia How libraries and librarians make a difference in their communities (2006) Conference on the Potential of Public Libraries in Developing Viable Local Communities, School of Library and Information Studies, Oslo University College - Oslo, Norway Information grounds and knowledge organization: Realizing the potential (2006) School of Library and Information Studies, Oslo University College - Oslo, Norway Modeling the information behavior of lay mediaries (2006) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Austin, TX Outcomes of community technology centers: Stories from Yakima (2006) Statewide Meeting, Communities Connect Network - Seattle, WA Social spaces, casual interactions, meaningful exchanges: An information ground typology based on the college student experience (2006) Annual Conference, ISIC - Information Seeking in Context - Sydney, Australia Stay-at-home mothers and the role of affect in everyday information behavior (2006) Annual Research Symposium, SIG USE - Special Interest Grou on Information Needs, Seeking, and Use (ASIS&T) - Austin, TX The death of the user and other ruminations on information behavior research (2006) Royal School of Library and Information Science - Copenhagen, Denmark The death of the user and other ruminations on information behavior research (2006) School of Library and Information Studies, Oslo University College - Oslo, Norway The death of the user and other ruminations on information behavior research (2006) Swedish School of Library and Information Science, The University College of Bor?s - Bor?s, Sweden The fabulous poor-rich information worlds of mothers who stay-at-home. Panel entitled Channeling Chatman: Questioning the applicability of a research legacy to today's small world realities, organized by C. Fulton (2006) 2006 Annual Conference of the American Society for Information Science & Technology - Austin, TX The missing piece: Affect and the information behavior of stay-at-home mothers (2006) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Austin, TX The role of community-based, problem-centered information intermediaries in local problem solving (2006) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Austin, TX Trends in U.S. LIS education: The iSchool factor (2006) School of Library and Information Studies, Oslo University College - Oslo, Norway Tweens and the role of affect in everyday life information seeking (2006) Annual Research Symposium, SIG USE - Special Interest Grou on Information Needs, Seeking, and Use (ASIS&T) - Austin, TX Connecting research and practice: Innovations and research at the Seattle Public Library (2005) Annual Conference, ALA - American Library Association - Chicago, IL Connecting Research and Practice: Special Populations (2005) Annual Research Symposium, SIG USE - Special Interest Group on Information Needs, Seeking, and Use (ASIS&T) - Charlotte, NC Information grounds of college students (2005) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Charlotte, NC Lost, found, and feeling better: Exploring proxy health information behavior (2005) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Charlotte, NC Our academic life: Challenges facing i-Schools (2005) Conference of the i-School Deans' Community: Bridging Disciplines to Confront Grand Challenges - University Park, PA Proxy searchers uncovered: Research lessons on how ordinary folks seek health information for others online (2005) Annual Meeting, Medical Library Association - San Antonio, TX Seattle Public Library as "place": Community building (2005) Shattering Stereotypes Conference, Seattle Public Library - Seattle, WA The emotional frontiers of tweens and stay-at-home moms. Panel organized by D. Nahl (2005) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Charlotte, NC The information grounds of UW's students (2005) Winter Quarter Meeting, ALUW - Association of Librarians of the University of Washington - Seattle, WA Tweens. Connecting Research and Practice: Special Populations (2005) Annual Research Symposium, SIG USE - Special Interest Group on Information Needs, Seeking, and Use (ASIS&T) - Charlotte, NC When the user isn't really the user, nobody is yet using, and uses are multifold. Panel on Sense-Making organized by B. Dervin (2005) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Charlotte, NC How libraries and librarians make a difference in their communities (2004) Annual Conference, PLA - Public Library Association - Seattle, WA Something old, something new: Preliminary findings from an exploratory study about people's information habits and information grounds (2004) Annual Conference, ISIC - Information Seeking in Context - Dublin, Ireland Barriers that must be overcome for effective use of digital community information: Preliminary patterns (2002) Shaping the Network Society: Patterns for Participation, Action and Change, CPSR - Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility - Seattle, WA Community information, networked style: Results from a nation-wide study with recommendations for online methodologies and evaluation (2001) American Library Association Library Research Roundtable Seminar - Baltimore, MD Ethnographic studies in LIS. (2001) American Library Association Library Research Roundtable Seminar - Baltimore, MD Fostering social capital using the 'Net: Perceptions of community network users, information providers and organizers (2001) International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, INSNA - International Network for Social Network Analysis - Budapest, Hungary Foundations and emerging characteristics of information communities: Findings from a qualitative study of three communities (2001) Digital Communities: Cities in the Information Society, Commission on the Geography of Global Information Society - Chicago, IL How libraries and librarians help: Context-centered methods for evaluating public library efforts at bridging the digital divide and building community (2001) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - Washington, DC How libraries and librarians help: IMLS sponsored research on the value of community information (2001) Web-Wise Conference on Libraries and Museums in the Digital World, IMLS - Institute of Museum and Library Services - Washington, DC I keep to myself, but: Impediments and catalysts to information flow and social support within homeless populations (2001) International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, INSNA - International Network for Social Network Analysis - Budapest, Hungary Information communities: How the Web facilitates information flow for everyday situations (2001) Annual Conference - INTERconnections, AoIR - Association of Internet Researchers - Minneapolis, MN Beyond footcare: Communication and information flow in clinic settings (2000) Washington Medical Librarians Association - Lynnwood, WA Community building using the 'Net: Perceptions of organizers, information providers and Internet users. (2000) Annual Conference - Internet Research 1.0: The State of the Interdiscipline, AoIR - Association of Internet Researchers - Lawrence, KS Community information on the 'Net (2000) Annual Conference, Michigan Library Association - Detroit, MI How librarians anticipate and respond to community information needs (2000) Multnomah County Library - Portland, OR How Libraries and Librarians Help (2000) Annual Conference, ALA - American Library Association - Chicago, IL Implications of the KALIPER results for LIS Education (2000) School of Library and Information Studies, University of Alberta - Edmonton, AB, Canada KALIPER: What the field says about LIS education at the dawn of a new century: Overview of Findings (2000) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - San Antonio, TX Social Capital as Embedded in the Social Support Networks of Homeless Populations (2000) International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, INSNA - International Network for Social Network Analysis - Vancouver, BC, Canada The role of theory in LIS Education and Research: Overview of Results (2000) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - San Antonio, TX Trends in LIS education: Results from the KALIPER Project (2000) School of Information, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI American public library participation in Internet community information delivery: Survey results and implications for reference service (1999) Annual Research Forum, RUSA - Reference and User Services Association (ALA) - New Orleans, LA Beyond footcare: The role of community health nurses in linking the elderly with human services during clinical interaction (1999) International Nursing Research Congress, Sigma Theta Tau International - Edmonton, AB, Canada Community health nurses as strong-weak ties: Findings from an ethnographic study on communication between nurses and the elderly at neighborhood clinics (1999) International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, INSNA - International Network for Social Network Analysis - Charleston, SC Conceptual and methodological issues with evaluating public library-community network initiatives (1999) Mid-Year Conference, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Pasadena, CA Help-seeking in an electronic world: The public library as a community information provider (1999) Annual Conference, Illinois Library Association - Chicago, IL Information sharing in the community: Using social network theory to map information exchange among nurses and the elderly (1999) Division of Medical Informatics, Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University - Raleigh, NC New strengths, new needs, new century: Opportunities for improving LIS education (1999) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - Philadelphia, PA The use of theory in library and information science education and research: Overview of a current study (1999) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - Philadelphia, PA "Only for emergencies": The role of network members in providing instrumental help, human services information and affective support to the elderly (1998) International Sunbelt Social Network Conference, INSNA - International Network for Social Network Analysis - Sitges, Spain He says, she says: Differences between nurses' and seniors' predictions of seniors' use of human services information given at footcare clinics (1997) Annual Conference, Connections: The Great Lakes Information Science Conference - Ann Arbor, MI I&R in the electronic age: Bringing it to the classroom (1997) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - Washington, DC Information-seeking via social networks: Overview of a PhD thesis on seniors' use of visiting nurses for obtaining human services information (1996) Annual Conference, Connections: The Great Lakes Information Science Conference - Toronto, ON, Canada Meeting the public's needs for community information in the electronic age: Has the time for I&R agencies run out? (1996) School of Information, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI Gaining entry, gaining experience: Lessons learned in a naturalistic inquiry (1995) Annual Conference, Connections: The Great Lakes Information Science Conference - London, ON, Canada Nurses' perceptions of their needs for community information: A proposal for an exploratory study in southwestern Ontario (1995) Annual Conference, ALISE - Association for Library and Information Science Education - Philadelphia, PA iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
