iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Maddy Jalbert Maddy Jalbert CV Postdoctoral Scholar mjalbert@uw.edu Gerberding Hall 054 Specializations Misinformation and judgments of truth Social cognition Research methodology Research Areas Learning Sciences Information and Society Biography Madeline Jalbert studies how context and subjective experiences influence memory, judgment, and decision-making. Her work primarily focuses on factors that impact judgments of truth and risk, as well as how these judgments play out in naturalistic contexts. The goal of this work is to shed light on effective strategies for preventing and correcting the spread of misinformation. Madeline comes from a background in social and cognitive psychology. She completed her Ph.D. in Social Psychology under the advisement of Dr. Norbert Schwarz. Prior to this, she worked in the Applied Cognition Research Lab of Dr. Ira Hyman. Education Ph D, Social Psychology, University of Southern California, 2021 MA, Social Psychology, University of Southern California, 2018 BS, Behavioral Neuroscience, minor in Chemistry, Western Washington University, 2016 Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal Metacognitive experiences as information: Fluency in consumer judgment and decision making (2021) Consumer Psychology Review, 4(1), pp. 4-25 Authors: N. Schwarz, Madeline Jalbert, T. Noah, L. Zhang Journal Article, Academic Journal Need for Cognition: Individual differences in truthiness and illusory truth (2020) Consciousness & Cognition, 78(102866) Authors: E. J. Newman, Madeline Jalbert, N. Schwarz, D. Ly Journal Article, Academic Journal Only half of what Ill tell you is true: Expecting to encounter falsehoods reduces illusory truth (2020) Journal of Applied Research in Cognition and Memory, 9(Unknown Issue), pp. 602-613 Authors: Madeline Jalbert, E. Newman, N Schwarz Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New When (fake) news feels true: Intuitions of truth and the acceptance and correction of misinformation (2020) The psychology of fake news: Accepting, sharing, and correcting misinformation Authors: N. Schwarz, Madeline Jalbert Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Cognitive fluency in the courtroom (2019) International Handbook of Legal and Investigative Psychology Authors: E. J. Newman, Madeline Jalbert, N. Feigenson Journal Article, Academic Journal Trivia claim norming: Methods report and data (2019) Authors: Madeline Jalbert, E. Newman, N. Schwarz Journal Article, Academic Journal Misinformation and worldviews in the post-truth information age: Commentary on Lewandowsky, Ecker, and Cook (2017) Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, 6(4), pp. 377-381 Authors: I. Hyman, Madeline Jalbert Presentations A lemon in yellow, a lemon in blue: Color congruence and truth judgment (2021) Poster to be presented at the annual meeting of the Society for Personality and Social Psychology A lemon in yellow, a lemon in blue: Color congruence and perceived truth (2020) Los Angeles, CA When thinking more backfires: Individual differences in Need for Cognition and the illusory truth effect (2020) New Orleans, LA Elaboration and Truth: What helps now, hurts later? (2019) Quebec, Canada If its relatively difficult to pronounce, it must be risky: Risk perception depends on processing experience in context (2019) Portland, OR The curious status of pre-exposure warnings in misinformation research (2019) Cape Cod, MA Voluntary, involuntary, and intrusive: The role of retrieval mode in intrusive memories (2019) Cape Cod, MA Fluency effects on risk perception are driven by the processing experience, not the stimulus (2018) New Orleans, LA Only half of what Ill tell you is true: The role of Need for Cognition in the emergence of the truth effect (2018) Atlanta, GA Repetition makes it true: The role of warnings and elaboration (2018) Lucerne, Switzerland Only half of what Ill tell you is true: How experimental procedures lead to an underestimation of the truth effect in the real world (2017) Burnaby, Canada Only half of what Ill tell you is true: How experimental procedures lead to an underestimation of the truth effect in the real world (2017) Vancouver, Canada Stealing memories: The egocentric source monitoring bias following collaborative remembering (2017) Burnaby, Canada Stealing memories: The egocentric source monitoring bias following collaborative remembering (2017) Vancouver, Canada Cognitive load during divided attention leads to intrusive rebound of thoughts (2015) Bellingham, WA From involuntary to intrusive: The features that cause a thought to feel intrusive (2015) Chicago, IL Recall me maybe: From distractor to intrusive though (2015) Victoria, BC Using songs to explore intrusive thoughts (2015) Bellingham, WA Dont stop the music: The effect of thought suppression on songs stuck in ones head (2014) Victoria, BC From distractor to intrusive thought (2014) Long Beach, CA iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
