iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Cecilia Aragon Cecilia Aragon CV Adjunct Professor aragon@uw.edu 206-221-0323 Sieg Hall 407A Website CV Biography Cecilia Aragon is a Professor in the Department of Human Centered Design & Engineering and a Senior Data Science Fellow at the eScience Institute at the University of Washington. She directs the Human-Centered Data Science Lab. Previously, she was a data scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory for six years, after earning her Ph.D. in Computer Science from UC Berkeley in 2004. She earned her B.S. in mathematics from the California Institute of Technology. Her research focuses on human-centered data science, an emerging field at the intersection of human-computer interaction (HCI), computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW), and the statistical and computational techniques of data science. She and her students develop collaborative visual analytics tools to facilitate data science, and study current scientific practice around large and complex data sets. She has authored or co-authored over 100 peer-reviewed publications and over 130 other publications in the areas of HCI, CSCW, data science, visual analytics, machine learning, and astrophysics. In 2008, she received the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the highest honor bestowed by the US government on outstanding scientists in the early stages of their careers, for her work in collaborative data-intensive science. Education Ph D, Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley, 2004 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Group interactions in location-based gaming: a case study of raiding in Pokmon GO (2019) Proceedings of the 37th Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 19) Authors: A. Bhattacharya, Travis Windleharth, R. A. Ishii, I. M. Acevedo, Cecilia Aragon, Julie A. Kientz, Jason Yip, Jin Ha Lee Journal Article, Academic Journal Toward the operationalization of visual metaphor (2017) Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 68(10), pp. 23382349 Authors: Alexis Hiniker, Sungsoo Ray Hong, Yea-Seul Kim, Nan-Chen Chen, Jevin West, Cecilia Aragon Journal Article, Public or Trade Journal How Fan Fiction Mentors Can Change Lives (2016) School Library Journal Authors: Sarah Evans, David Randall, Julie Campbell, Katharine Davis, Cecilia Aragon, Abigail Evans Conference Paper Thousands of positive reviews: Distributed mentoring in online fan communities (2016) ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW 16), pp. 691-704 Authors: J. Campbell, Cecilia Aragon, Katharine Davis, Sarah Evans, Abigail Evans, David Randall Conference Proceeding Building an Urban Data Science Summer Program at the University of Washington eScience Institute (2015) Authors: Ariel Rokem, Brittany Fiore-Gartland, Bernease Herman, Micaela Parker, Cecilia Aragon, Bryna Hazelton, William G Howe, Valentina Staneva, Anthony Arendt, Joseph Hellerstein, Ed Lazowska, Sarah Stone, Anissa Tanweer, Jacob Vanderplas Conference Paper Writing within community: How mentoring works in online fan fiction (2015) Young Adult Library Services Association Symposium Authors: S. A. Evans, J. Campbell, Katharine Davis, Abigail Evans, D. P. Randall, Cecilia Aragon Conference Proceeding VizDeck: Streamlining exploratory visual analytics of scientific data (2013) iConference Authors: Daniel B Perry, William G Howe, Alicia MF Key, Cecilia Aragon Conference Proceeding VizDeck: A Card Game Metaphor for Fast Visual Data Exploration (2012) CHI 12 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 16671672, ISBN/ISSN: 978-1-4503-1016-1 Authors: William G Howe, Alicia Key, Daniel Perry, Cecilia Aragon Conference Proceeding Vizdeck: Self-organizing dashboards for visual analytics (2012) Proceedings of the 2012 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (demo), pp. 681684 Authors: Alicia Key, William G Howe, Daniel Perry, Cecilia Aragon Book, Scholarly-New Writers in the secret garden: Fanfiction, youth, and new forms of mentoring Authors: Cecilia Aragon, Katharine Davis iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
