iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > James A. Fogarty James A. Fogarty CV Adjunct Professor jaf1978@uw.edu Website Biography James Fogarty is an Associate Professor of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington. He is also a core member of the DUB Group, our cross-campus initiative advancing Human-Computer Interaction and Design research and education. His broad research interests are in Human-Computer Interaction, User Interface Software and Technology, and Ubiquitous Computing. His focus is on developing, deploying, and evaluating new approaches to the human obstacles surrounding widespread everyday adoption of ubiquitous sensing and intelligent computing technologies. Education Ph D, Human Computer Interaction, Carnegie Mellon University, 2006 BS, Computer Science, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 2000 Publications and Contributions Conference Poster Demonstration of GestureCalc: An Eyes-Free Calculator for Touch Screens (2019) Proceedings of the 21st International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility (ASSETS '19), pp. 667-669 Authors: Leah Perlmutter, Bindita Chaudhuri, Justin Petelka, Philip Garrison, James A. Fogarty, Jacob O. Wobbrock, Richard E. Ladner Conference Paper GestureCalc: An Eyes-Free Calculator for Touch Screens (2019) Proceedings of the 21st International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility (ASSETS '19) Authors: Bindita Chaudhuri, Leah Perlmutter, Justin Petelka, Philip Garrison, James A. Fogarty, Jacob O. Wobbrock, Richard E. Ladner Conference Paper Epidemiology as a framework for large-scale mobile application accessibility assessment (2017) Proceedings of the ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility (ASSETS 17), pp. 2-11 Authors: Annie Ross, Xiaoyi Zhang, James A. Fogarty, Jacob O. Wobbrock Conference Paper User interface toolkit mechanisms for securing interface elements (2012) Proceedings of the 25th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology, pp. 239--250 Authors: Franzi Roesner, James A. Fogarty, Tadayoshi Kohno Journal Article, Academic Journal An Epidemiology-inspired large-scale analysis of Android App Accessibility ACM Trasactions on Accessible Computing Authors: Anne Spencer Ross, Xiaoyi Zhang, James A. Fogarty, Jacob O. Wobbrock iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
