iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Erik Hofer Erik Hofer CV Affiliate Assistant Professor ehofer@uw.edu Biography Erik Hofer is the Associate Vice President for Academic Services and Deputy Chief Information Officer at the University of Washington. He provides strategic direction and oversight of key initiatives that advance teaching, learning and the broader academic experience by partnering with students, faculty and staff to offer technologies and approaches that meet their diverse needs. Previously, he served as Clinical Assistant Professor of Information and the Chief Information Officer at the University of Michigan School of Information. Mr. Hofer's teaching focuses on the application of user-centered design methods to emerging technologies, with a specific focus on social computing, personal informatics, managing IT organizations, and entrepreneurial design. Education MS, University of Michigan School of Information, 2001 BA, Psychology, University of Michigan, 1999 Awards Excellence in Instruction Award - University of Michigan School of Information, 2008 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Exploring collaboration in group-to-group videoconferencing (2012) From Research to Practice in the Design of Cooperative Systems: Results and Open Challenges, Proceedings of the 10th Annual Conference on the Design of Cooperative Systems Authors: P. Slovak, P. Novak, P. Troubil, V. Rusnak, p Holub, Erik Hofer Conference Abstract Exploring trust in group-to-group video-conferencing (2011) Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '11), pp. 1459-1464 Authors: P. Slovak, P. Novak, P. Troubil, P. Holub, Erik Hofer Conference Paper Supporting spatial awareness and independent wayfinding for pedestrians with visual impairments (2011) Proceedings of the 13th International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility (ASSETS '11), pp. 27-34 Authors: R. Yang, S. Park, S. R. Mishra, Z. Hong, , C. Newsom, H. Joo, Erik Hofer, M. W. Newman Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New A Theory of Remote Scientific Collaboration (2008) Scientific Collaboration on the Internet Authors: Judith S. Olson, Erik Hofer, Nathan Bos, Ann Zimmerman, Gary M. Olson, Daniel Cooney, Ixchel Faniel Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Collaboratory: The LHC Collaborations (2008) Scientific Collaboration on the Internet Authors: Erik Hofer, P. Avery, J. P. Birnholtz, S. McKee Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Collaboratory: The National Virtual Observatory (2008) Scientific Collaboration on the Internet Authors: M. S. Ackerman, Erik Hofer Presentations Containers for all: using containers for teaching and research (2018) Educause 2018 Annual Conference - Denver, CO Improving support services through applied machine learning (2018) Educause 2018 Annual Conference - Denver, CO Building strategic partnerships with a faculty relationship management toolkit (2017) Educause Annual Conference 2017 - Philadelphia, PA Charting a leadership course: identifying ways to transform leadership behaviors to meet future challenges (2017) Educause Annual Conference 2017 - Philadelphia, PA CIO Camp (2017) CIO Camp Detroit 2017 - Detroit, MI How I learned to stop worrying and love IT rationalization (2017) Educause Annual Conference 2017 - Philadelphia, PA One big happy IT family: examining the digital generations in the workplace (2017) Educause Annual Conference 2017 - Philadelphia, PA Critical making and body politics (2016) Workshop: Critical making: body politics: exploring identity, expression, and corporeality through the creative process - Ann Arbor, MI Developing new ways of seeing and engaging partners with experience-based design (2016) Educause 2016 Annual Conference - Anaheim, CA Experience based interview techniques (2016) 2016 Michigan IT Symposium - Ann Arbor, MI Getting the most out of the Michigan IT symposium (hands on training) (2016) 2016 Michigan IT Symposium - Ann Arbor, MI Michigan IT: Charting a leadership path workshop (2016) Michigan IT: Charting a leadership path workshop - Ann Arbor, MI Understanding the digital generations (2016) Digital Natives and Digital Immigrants Forum - Detroit, MI The effect of massive online courses on teaching and learning (2014) American Medical Association Accelerating Change in Medical Education Consortium Meeting - Ann Arbor, MI UMSI IT challenges and shaping our programs (2014) State of Michigan CIO Kitchen Cabinet - Ann Arbor, MI Living in a dematerial world: the design and maintenance of sustainable social networks (2011) Microsoft Research - Redmond, WA iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
