iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > W.E. King W.E. King CV Lecturer mxwe@uw.edu Off-Campus Specializations Gender and Technology Artificial Intelligence and Religion Digital Media and Society Research Area Information and Society Courses INFO 200 - Intellectual Foundations Of Informatics INFO 300 - Research Methods Biography Dr. Wes Eli King is a lecturer in the University of Washington Information School, teaching core informatics courses to undergraduates. They have been at the UW since 2013, both as a graduate student and an instructor. Dr. Wes brings over 20 years of technical writing and technical training experience to the classroom. Dr. Wes is passionate about teaching and offers a critical informatics lens for students to adopt as they develop their career goals and imagine the future of information. As an activist-researcher, Dr. Wes locates their research at the intersection of technology, religion, and gender. They completed their dissertation entitled, A Match Made in Heaven: Queer Christians and Dating Apps, at the UW iSchool in 2021 and taught a Special Topics in Informatics course on internet dating in Spring of 2020. Dr. Wes has also developed a Special Topics in Informatics course on AI, robots, and transcending religion that brings together their research and teaching with their interest in science fiction and imagining futures. Education Ph D, Information Science, University of Washington, 2021 MS, Information Science , University of Washington, 2019 MA, International Studies: Comparative Religion, University of Washington, 2015 MA, Ministry Leadership, Portland Seminary, 2011 BA, Organizational and Interpersonal Communication Concentration in Psychology and Computer Science, Ohio State University, 1986 Awards Dissertation Fellowship - Louisville Institute, 2020-2021 Joan W. Welk Endowed Graduate Fellowship in Comparative Religion, 2014-2015 Best Paper in Ethical Challenges Accompanying Digital and Social Media Mini-Track (Nominated) - Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2015 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Librarian perspectives on the role of virtual reality in public libraries (2020) 83rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&T '20) Authors: Jin Ha Lee, Kung Jin Lee, W.E. King, Negin Dahya Journal Article, Academic Journal Politics of Race, Gender, and Visual Representation in Feminist Media Education (2020) Discourse, Special issue on Child and Youth Engagement: Civic Literacies and Digital Ecologies, 41(5), pp. 673690 Authors: W.E. King, Negin Dahya Conference Poster Virtual Reality in Washington State Libraries (2018) Connected Learning Summit 2018 Authors: Negin Dahya, Kung Jin Lee, W.E. King, Jin Ha Lee Conference Paper 'Almost,' 'more than,' or 'truly' human?: Examining Sci-Fi TV through the lenses of digital and theological anthropologies (2015) Proceedings of the Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Science, pp. 1734-1741 Author: W.E. King Book, Non-Scholarly-New Facing The Talk: Conversations with my four daughters about sex (2015) Author: W.E. King Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Feminist perspectives and mobile culture(s): power and participation in girls' digital video making communities Feminist Interventions in Participatory Media: Pedagogy, Publics, Practice Authors: Negin Dahya, W.E. King Journal Article, Academic Journal Perceptions and experiences of Virtual Reality in public libraries Journal of Documentation Authors: Jin Ha Lee, Negin Dahya, W.E. King, Kung Jin Lee Presentations Librarian Perspectives on the Role of Virtual Reality in Public Libraries (2020) 2020 ASIS&T Virtual Annual Meeting - Virtual iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
