iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Harry Bruce Harry Bruce CV Professor Emeritus, Dean Emeritus harryb@uw.edu Website Fax: 206-616-3152 Specializations Human Information Behavior Personal Information Management Biography Dr. Harry Bruce is a Professor Emeritus and Dean Emeritus of the Information School of the University of Washington. His teaching and research focus is on human information behavior, information seeking and use and personal information management. Harrys research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the Institute for Library and Museum Studies, and the Australian Department of Employment Education and Training. Education Ph D, Information Science, University of New South Wales, 1996 Mlibr, University of New South Wales, 1993 BA, Macquarie University, 1982 Memberships Association for Information Science & Technology Association for Library and Information Science Education iCaucus Publications and Contributions Conference Paper The vision, successes and challenges of the iSchool movement (2017) 8th Annual Conference of the Saudi Association for Library Information Author: Harry Bruce Conference Paper How Do People Re-find Files, Emails and Web Pages? (2014) Proceedings of iConference 2014 Authors: William Jones, Abe Wenning, Harry Bruce Journal Article, Academic Journal Seeking an ideal solution to the management of personal information collections (2011) Information Research, 16(1), pp. paper 462 Authors: Harry Bruce, A G Wenning, Elisabeth Jones, Vinson Julia, William Jones Journal Article, Academic Journal The Audacious Vision of Information Schools (2011) Journal of Library and Information Science, 37(1), pp. 4-10 Author: Harry Bruce Conference Paper Providing for Paper, Place and People in Personal Projects (2009) PIM - Personal Information Management Workshop Authors: J Vinson, William Jones, Harry Bruce Conference Paper I Give Up! Five Factors that Contribute to the Abandonment of Information Management Strategies (2008) ASIS&T Annual Meeting, ISBN/ISSN: 1550-8390 Authors: Harry Bruce, E. Jones Editors: J.-M. Griffiths, A. S. Grove Conference Poster I Give Up! Five Factors that Contribute to the Abandonment of Information Management Strategies (2008) ASIS&T Annual Meeting Authors: Elisabeth Jones, Harry Bruce, Predrag Klasnja, William Jones Conference Paper Planning Personal Projects and Organizing Personal Information (2006) ASIS&T Annual Meeting Authors: A Foxley, C Munat, William Jones, Harry Bruce Conference Paper Project Contexts to Situate Personal Information (2006) SIGIR 2006, Seattle, WA Authors: A Foxley, William Jones, Harry Bruce Conference Paper The I-Conference:Gathering of the Clans of Information (2006) 32(4), pp. 9-23, ISBN/ISSN: 0095-4403 Authors: Harry Bruce, D. J. Richardson, Michael Eisenberg Journal Article, Academic Journal Personal anticipated information need (2005) Information Research, 10(3), ISBN/ISSN: 1368-1613 Author: Harry Bruce Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New The PAIN Hypothesis (2005) Theories of information behavior: A researcher's guide, ISBN/ISSN: 978-1573872300 Author: Harry Bruce Conference Paper The Universal Labeler: Plan the Project and Let Your Information Follow (2005) ASIS&T Annual Meeting Authors: C Munat, William Jones, Harry Bruce Journal Article, Academic Journal A multidimensional approach to the study of human-information interaction: A case study of collaborative information retrieval (2004) Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 55(11), pp. 939-953 Authors: Raya Fidel, A. M. Pejtersen, B. Cleal, Harry Bruce Conference Paper Building an Interdisciplinary Research Community and Culture in an Information School (2004) pp. 89-99 Authors: Harry Bruce, Alpha Delap Journal Article, Academic Journal Information behavior that keeps found things found (2004) Information Research, 10(1) Authors: Harry Bruce, William Jones, S. Dumais Conference Paper Keeping and Re-finding information on the Web: What do people do and what do they need? (2004) ISBN/ISSN: 0044-7870 Authors: Harry Bruce, William Jones, S. Dumais Journal Article, Academic Journal A comparison of the collaborative information retrieval of two design teams (2003) The New Review of Information Behavior Research, pp. 139-153 Authors: Harry Bruce, Raya Fidel, A. M. Pejtersen, S. Dumais, J. Grudin Conference Position Paper Information Seeking and Sharing in Design Teams (2003) Proceedings of the 2003 International ACM SIGGROUP Conference on Supporting Group Work, pp. 239-247 Authors: S. Poltrock, J. Grudin, S. Dumais, Raya Fidel, Harry Bruce, A. M. Pejtersen Book Editor, Scholarly Emerging frameworks and methods: Proceedings of the fourth international conference on conceptions of library and information science (CoLIS4) (2002) Editors: Harry Bruce, Raya Fidel, P Ingwersen, P Vakkari Book, Scholarly-New The User's View of the Internet (2002) pp. 228, ISBN/ISSN: 978-0810843660 Author: Harry Bruce Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Conceptual frameworks in information behavior (2001) Annual Review of Information Science & Technology, 35(Unknown Issue), pp. 43-78 Authors: K. E. Pettigrew, Raya Fidel, Harry Bruce Journal Article, Academic Journal Collaborative Information Retrieval (CIR) (2000) New Review of Information Behaviour Research: Studies of Information Seeking in Context, 1(1), pp. 235-247 Authors: Raya Fidel, Harry Bruce, A. M. Pejtersen, S. Dumais, J. Grudin, S. Poltrock Presentations Trends in information research and education (2017) King Saud University - Riyadh, Saudi Arabia The Audacious Vision of Information Schools (2010) International Symposium on the Transformation & Innovation of Library and Information Science, Graduate Institute of Library and Information Studies, National Taiwan Normal University - Taipei, Taiwan The Emerging Role of Libraries in an Information Age (2009) Friends of the Seattle Pacific University Libraries - Seattle, WA A vision for Global Research Libraries in 2020 (2008) Workshop: Shaping a Roadmap for the Future of Research Libraries, GRL - Global Research Libraries 2020 - Tirrenia Pisa, Italy Leadership in Higher education: iSchools and the 21st Century Librarian (2008) NW Academic Library Directors Symposium - Portland, OR The iSchool and the future of LIS Education (2008) Summer Institute for Chinese Studies Librarianship in the Electronic Environment, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Information schools and the future of LIS education and research (2007) University of Hangzhou, Xixi Campus - Hangzhou, China Personal Information Management (2007) University of Hangzhou, Xixi Campus - Hangzhou, China Personal Information Management (2007) Shanghai Jiaotong University - Shanghai, China Educating information specialists in a digital age (2006) Annual Conference on Information Technology, Sino-U.S. Symposium on Library and Information Science Education in Asia - Wuhan, China The i-School Movement (panel session) (2006) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Austin, TX Keeping Found Things Found (2005) Meeting, Pacific Northwest Chapter, SLA - Special Libraries Association - Seattle, WA Keeping found things found and other challenges of Personal Information Management (2005) Pressing Questions of the Information Age Series, Digital Media Working Group, The Institute for International Policy's Center for Internet Studies, and The Simpson Center for the Humanities at the University of Washington - Seattle, WA Keeping found things found and other challenges of Personal Information Management (2005) Pressing Questions of the Information Age Series, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Now Do You Know Where Your Information Is?: Perspectives on the Present and Future of Personal Information Management (2003) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Long Beach, CA Personal Information Management in Theory and in Practice (2003) Annual Meeting, ASIS&T - American Society for Information Science & Technology - Long Beach, CA iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
