iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Meredith Ringel Morris Meredith Ringel Morris CV Affiliate Professor merrie@google.com Website CV Specializations Collaboration Computer Supported Cooperative Work Group Interaction Biography Meredith Ringel Morris is a computer scientist conducting research in the areas of human-computer interaction (HCI), computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW), social computing, and accessibility. Her current research focus is on accessibility, particularly on the intersection of accessibility and social technologies. In the past, her main research focus was social and collaborative web search. She has also studied other classes of collaboration technologies, including gesture systems and tabletop computing systems.Morris is a Principal Researcher and Research Manager for the Ability research group at Microsoft Research. She is also an affiliate Professor in the School of Computer Science & Engineering and in the Information School at the University of Washington, where she participates in the dub research consortium. Education Ph D, Computer Science, Stanford University, 2006 MS, Computer Science, Stanford University, 2003 Sc.B, Brown University, 2001 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Crowdlicit: A System for Conducting Distributed End-User Elicitation and Identification Studies (2019) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 19), pp. 1-12 Authors: Abdullah Ali, Meredith Ringel Morris, Jacob O. Wobbrock Conference Paper Crowdsourcing similarity judgments for agreement analysis in end-user elicitation studies (2018) Proceedings of the 31st Annual Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST 2018) Authors: Abdullah Ali, Meredith Ringel Morris, Jacob O. Wobbrock Conference Paper Improving dwell-based gaze typing with dynamic, cascading dwell times (2017) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '17) Authors: Martez Mott, S. Williams, Jacob O. Wobbrock, Meredith Ringel Morris Conference Paper Touchplates: Low-cost tactile overlays for visually impaired touch screen users (2013) Proceedings of the ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility Authors: S. K. Kane, Meredith Ringel Morris, Jacob O. Wobbrock Journal Article, Academic Journal Distributed Interaction Design: Designing human-centered interactions in a time of social distancing ACM Interactions Authors: Jacob O. Wobbrock, Abdullah Ali, Meredith Ringel Morris iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
