iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Cindy Aden Cindy Aden CV Professor of Practice and Distinguished Practitioner in Residence adenc@uw.edu 206-221-2335 Mary Gates Hall 330K Specializations Broadband access and the role of libraries Strategic library partnerships Research Areas Information and Society Library and Information Science Biography Cindy Altick Aden graduated from Stanford University with a degree in International Relations. Her focus was on languages, cultural communication and political science. A year later Cindy completed a certification program from Stanfords Mass Media Institute and became a reporter for the Palo Alto Weekly. She held subsequent newspaper jobs and freelanced stories for multiple weekly newspapers in the Northwest, serving as editor for two papers. Cindy graduated from the University of Washington with a masters in Library & Information Science and was recruited for the Library of Congress intern program where she started her library career serving Congress. She worked subsequently at the University of Washington as a reference librarian and as a collections selector at Suzzallo Library, as a reference librarian at Odegaard Undergraduate Library and as Head of Circulation at the Gallagher Law Library. Cindy left academia to work for Kitsap Regional Library, a public library system, as Assistant Director in charge of Reference Services across the multi-branch system. After two years of commuting by ferry, Cindy was contacted by a start-up, Amazon.com, which was looking for a librarian. There she oversaw the cataloging and engineering teams and finally served as the program manager for all the product business sectors. Cindy was employee number 750, and she saw the company expand to 5 countries and over 10,000 employees by the time she left in 2004. Cindy then worked for Corbis, Bill Gates's image company, where she served as Head of Cataloging and addressed image management: discovery, metadata and preservation. OCLC then recruited Cindy for a position in Business Development, where she worked with Silicon Valley companies, like Google, Goodreads and Yelp, who wanted access to library data and to understand bibliographic metadata and discovery. Cindy served in that position for over 7 years, enhancing library discovery on the Internet. Cindy became the Washington State Librarian in August, 2016. Issues like access to broadband, developing a statewide ebook platform, augmenting library catalog visibility, defending federal library funding and identifying new ebook models that benefit libraries and authors, have been some of her areas of focus. In August, 2020 she became the third iSchool Distinguished Practitioner of Practice at the University of Washington. She is excited to bring together her experience with journalism, government, internet search and discovery and strategic partnerships, to guarantee libraries are always relevant to their communities. Education MLS, Information Science , University of Washington, 1987 BA, International Relations, Stanford University, 1978 Awards DOER Honoree - FCC Commissioner, 2020 Consulting and Other Projects Edmonds View, Edmonds, WA, 1983 Eastside Potpourri, Bellevue, WA, 1981 Palo Alto Weekly, Palo Alto, CA, 1979 Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Professional Journal Practicing Strategic Metadata Management: Knowing your media and its market potential (2005) Journal of Digital Asset Management, 1(4), pp. 236-240 Author: Cindy Aden Journal Article, Professional Journal Career Alternatives: How to Expand Your Library Skills (1998) PNLA Quarterly, 63(1) Author: Cindy Aden Journal Article, Professional Journal Library Services to Native American Populations (1995) ALKI, The Washington Library Association Journal, 11(1), pp. 24-25 Author: Cindy Aden Journal Article, Professional Journal Continuing Education for Library Staff: Getting an MLS on the Run (1994) ALKI, 10(3), pp. 10-11 Author: Cindy Aden Journal Article, Professional Journal WLA PresidentsBarbara Tolliver and Randy Hensley (1993) 9(2), pp. 1-2 Author: Cindy Aden Presentations The Future of Digital Equity & Libraries (2021) American Library Association, Midwinter Conference - virtual The Future of Digital Equity & Libraries (2021) American Library Association, Midwinter Conference - virtual Beyond our Doors: Connecting for a Broader Future (2019) Washington State Library - Wenatchee, WA Leadership for the Future of Libraries (2019) Libraries Symposium at the ALA Midwinter Meeting - Seattle, WA e-Book Summit: Libraries and e-Books (2018) ALA, ASGCLA (Association of Specialized, Government & Cooperative Library Agencies) - New Orleans, LA Wikipedia and Libraries: Increasing your Library's Visibility (2014) American Library Association - Las Vegas, NV Eye to I: Visual Literacy meets Information Literacy (2007) American Library Associate Annual Conference - Washington, D. C. Beyond the Horizon: Environment Trends in Context (2005) OCLC Symposium - Orlando, FL Mastering the Internet (2005) North Suburban Library System - Wheeling, IL Search Trends and Metadata Practices (2005) Information Futures Institute - Seattle, WA The Future of Libraries (2005) Washington State Library Symposium on the Future of Libraries - Olympia, WA Trends in Searching (2005) CARL User's Group Conference - Denver, CO E- Commerce and Libraries: what can libraries leverage and learn from on-line bookselling? (2004) Public Library Association 10th Annual National Conference - Seattle, WA E-Commerce and Libraries; trends, challenges and opportunities (2004) Library of Congress - Washington, D. C. E-Commerce and Libraries: What Can They Learn From Each Other? (2004) Washington Library Association/Pacific Northwest Library Association, Joint Conference - Wenatchee, WA Building Your Business to Last (2003) Center for Publishing at New York University, Management Forum for Independent Publishers - New York, New York Envision Tomorrows Catalog: A View from Outside the Library (2003) American Association of Law Librarians 96th Annual Meeting - Seattle, WA Libraries and E-Commerce: What Can We Learn From Each Other? (2003) New Mexico Library Association Annual Conference - Albuquerque, NM Cutting Edge Catalog (2002) New England Library and Information Network (NELINT) Annual Meeting - Worcester, MA Supporting Networks Through Indexing and Metadata: The New Data Frontier (2002) Special Library Association, Annual Conference - Los Angeles, CA This is NOT an Option: Information and Technology Skills for Student Success (2002) American Association for Community Colleges 82nd Annual Conference - Seattle, WA The Future of Cataloging and Online Searching (2001) American Library Association Annual Conference - San Francisco, CA The Commercial Online Environment: Is It Building Expectations for Library Performance? (2000) OCLC/WLN Pacific Northwest Directors Conference - Olympia, WA Internet Training Program (1996) Washington State Library - Olympia, WA iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
