iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Marika Cifor Marika Cifor CV Assistant Professor mcifor@uw.edu 206-221-8115 Mary Gates Hall 015I Affiliate Positions Affiliate Faculty, AfterLab, Information School Affiliate Faculty, DataLab, Information School Affiliate Faculty, Technology and Social Change Group (TASCHA), Information School Specializations Archives and Record Management Digital Studies Gender and Technology Research Areas Information and Society Library and Information Science Biography Marika Cifor is Assistant Professor in the Information School at the University of Washington. She is a feminist scholar working at the intersections of archival studies and digital studies. Her research investigates how through archives, records, and data produced within digital cultures, individuals and communities marginalized by sexuality, race, class, gender, and HIV-status enact and give substance to their identities, collective memories, and social movements. Currently, Marika is working on a book and digital humanities project, Viral Cultures: Activist Archives at the End of AIDS (University of Minnesota Press, under contract), that examines the critical potential of the emotions and memories that are recorded and produced by archives documenting HIV/AIDS activism during the 1980s and 1990s. This project also investigates the activation of these records on contemporary digital platforms by artists, archivists, and activists. As part of the interdisciplinary Border Quants: Feminist Approaches to Data, Bodies and Technologies Across Borders research team she is working to develop feminist data studies. At the iSchool Marika holds affiliations with the DataLab and the Technology and Social Change (TASCHA) group. Education Ph D, Information Studies, University of California, Los Angeles, 2017 MS, Library and Information Science, Simmons College, 2012 MA, History, Simmons College, 2012 BA, Political, Legal and Economic Analysis and History, Mills College, 2007 Awards Best Paper of the Digital and Social Media Track Nomination - HICSS 52, 2019 Feminist Research Seminar on the Theme of Feminist Data - Institute for Research on Women and Gender, University of Michigan, 2018 Ernst Posner Award - Society of American Archivists, 2017 Conference Travel Grant - Litwin Books, 2016 Graduate Research Mentorship Award - University of California, Los Angeles, 2016 Honorable Mention for the Susan Garfinkel Prize in Digital Humanities - American Studies Association, 2016 National Science Foundation Travel Grant Award - Society for the Social Studies of Science (4S) Conference, 2016 Runner-Up Award for Most Interesting Preliminary Results Paper - iConference, 2016 Archival Education and Research Institute Scholarship - University of Maryland, College Park, 2015 Dissertation Proposal Development Fellowship - Social Science Research Council, 2015 Graduate Summer Research Mentorship Award - University of California, Los Angeles, 2015 Archival Education and Research Institute Scholarship - University of Pittsburgh, 2014 Graduate Summer Research Mentorship - University of California, Los Angeles, 2014 LGBT Studies Conference Travel Grant - University of California, Los Angeles, 2014 Initiated to Membership - Beta Phi Mu: Library and Information Science Honor Society, 2012 Mary Lily Research Grant - Sallie Bingham Center for Womens History and Culture, 2012 Book Award - Beta Beta Chapter of Beta Phi Mu, Simmons College, 2011 Office of Sponsored Programs Travel Award - Simmons College, 2011 Office of Sponsored Programs Travel Award - Simmons College, 2010 Initiated to Membership - Phi Alpha Theta: History Honor Society, 2006 Memberships American Studies Association Association for Library and Information Science Education Fembot Collective FemTechNet National Womens Studies Association Society for Cinema and Media Studies Society for the Social Studies of Science Society of American Archivists Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal #WhatIsRememberedLives: The Temporal Politics and Design of Archiving AIDS on Instagram (2021) Theory, Culture and Society Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal The information practices of law enforcement: passive and active collaboration and its implication for Sanctuary laws in Washington State (2021) Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology (JASIST), 72(11), pp. 1354-1366 Authors: Yubing Tian, Ricardo Gomez, Marika Cifor, James Wilson, Henry Morgan Journal Article, Academic Journal What is Remembered Lives: Time and the Disruptive Animacy of Archiving AIDS on Instagram (2021) Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Gendered by Design: A Duoethnographic Study of Personal Fitness Tracking Systems (2020) ACM Transactions on Social Computing (TSC), 2(4), pp. 1-22 Authors: Marika Cifor, Patricia Garcia Conference Extended Abstract No: Critical Refusal as Feminist Data Practice (2020) Conference Companion Publication of the 2020 on Computer Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing, pp. 199-202 Authors: P. Garcia, T. Sutherland, Marika Cifor, A. S. Chan, L. Klein, C. D'Ignazio, N. Salehi Journal Article, Academic Journal Reclaiming HIV/AIDS in Digital Media Studies (2020) First Monday, 25(10) Authors: Marika Cifor, Cait McKinney Journal Article, Academic Journal Reclaiming HIV/AIDS in Digital Studies (2020) First Monday Authors: Marika Cifor, Cait McKinney Journal Article, Academic Journal Special Issue on HIV/AIDS and Digital Media (2020) First Monday, 25(10) Editors: Marika Cifor, Cait McKinney Conference Paper The Cost of Entry: Internships in Galleries, Libraries, Archives, and Museums Education. (2020) iConference 2020 Proceedings Authors: Marika Cifor, B. Watson Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Throughlines: Social Injustice and Activism in Los Angeles (2020) Transformative Projects in the Digital Humanities Authors: Marika Cifor, B. Paris Conference Paper Duoethnography: A Feminist Methodology for Examining Socio-Technical Systems (2019) Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 3, CSCW Issue Authors: P. Garcia, Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Evidences, Implications, and Critical Interrogations of Neoliberalism in Information Studies: An Introduction (2019) Journal of Critical Library and Information Studies, 2(1) Editors: Jamie A. Lee, Marika Cifor Conference Paper Expanding Our Reflexive Toolbox: Collaborative Possibilities for Examining Socio-Technical Systems Using Duoethnography (2019) Proceedings of the 37th annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems (CHI '19), pp. 1-23 Authors: P. Garcia, Marika Cifor Website Document Feminist Data Manifest-No (2019) Authors: Marika Cifor, Patricia Garcia, T. L. Cowan, Jasmine Rault, Tonia Sutherland, Anita Say Chan, Jennifer Rode, Anna Lauren Hoffmann, Niloufar Salehi, Lisa Nakamura Conference Paper Inscribing Gender: A Duoethnographic Examination of Gendered Values in Fitness Tracker Design (2019) Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 52(Unknown Issue) Authors: Marika Cifor, P. Garcia Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Neither A Beginning Nor An End: Applying An Ethics of Care to Digitizing Archival Collections (2019) DigitalGLAM: New Digital Practices in Galleries, Libraries, Archives and Museums, pp. 10 Authors: M. Caswell, Marika Cifor Journal Article, Professional Journal Status=Undetectable: Curating for the Present and Future of AIDS (2019) OnCurating, 36(Unknown Issue) Author: Marika Cifor Conference Paper Uncover Sexual Harassment Patterns from Personal Stories by Joint Key Element Extraction and Categorization (2019) Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP '19), pp. 23282337 Authors: Yingchi Liu, Quanzhi Li, Marika Cifor, Xiaozhoung Liu, Qiong Zhang, Luo Si Magazine/Trade Publication What We Mean When We Say #AbolishBigData2019 (2019) Medium Authors: Mytha Anthym, Elvia Arroyo-Ramirez, Kaylan Baxter, Paulette Blanc, B. B. Buchanan, Matthew Bui, Sumandro Chattapadhyay, Marika Cifor, Roderic Crooks, Taylor Cruz, Mia Dawson, Jay Dev, Joan Donovan, Jamie Garcia, Julia Gelfand, Chris Gilliard, Ben Green, Harry Hvdson, Lilly Irani, Hamid Khan, Nadia Khan, Jenny Korn, Lisa Martinez, Bill Maurer, Carolina Mayes, Amanda Meng, Mlanie Millette, Sara Milkes, Florence Millerand, Yeshimabeit Milner, Akua Nkansah-Amankra, , Benedict Salazar Olgado, Aitanna Parker, Lucy Pei, Kylie Peppler, Winifred Poster, Stevie Rea, Allissa Richardson, Charmaine Runes, Mariella Saba, Zithri Saleem, Gwen Shaffer, Yvonne Sherwood, Janine Slaker, Toby Smith, Meme Styles, Tonia Sutherland, Lolita Tabron, Rebecca Widom, Stacey Wood Journal Article, Academic Journal Early African American Film Database: Reconstructing the History of Silent Race Films, 1909-1930 (2018) The Journal of Open Humanities Data Authors: Marika Cifor, H. Girma, W. Lam, S. Norman, Miriam Posner Journal Article, Academic Journal Generative Tensions: Building a Digital Project on Early African American Race Film (2018) American Quarterly, 70(3), pp. 709-713 Authors: Miriam Posner, Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Imagining Transformative Spaces: The Personal-Political Sites of Community Archives (2018) Archival Science, 18(1), pp. 73-93 Authors: M. Caswell, J. Gabiola, J. Zavala, G. Brilmyer, Marika Cifor Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Stains and Remains: Liveliness, Materiality and the Archival Lives of Queer Bodies (2018) Archives and New Modes of Feminist Research Author: Marika Cifor Book Review The Economization of Life, by Michelle Murphy (2018) Information and Culture, 53(3-4), pp. 374-376 Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal What We Do Crosses Over to Activism: The Politics and Practice of Community Archives (2018) The Public Historian, 40(2), pp. 69-95 Authors: Marika Cifor, M. Caswell, A. A. Migoni, N. Geraci Journal Article, Academic Journal Critical Feminism in the Archives (2017) Journal of Critical Library and Information Studies, 1(2) Authors: Marika Cifor, S. Wood Journal Article, Academic Journal Stains and Remains: Liveliness, Materiality and the Archival Lives of Queer Bodies (2017) Australian Feminist Studies, 91-92(Unknown Issue), pp. 5-21 Author: Marika Cifor Web Gallery Introduction Towards an AIDS Archive (2017) Visual AIDS Web Gallery Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Towards an Archival Critique: Opening Possibilities for Addressing Neoliberalism in the Archival Field (2017) Journal of Critical Library and Information Studies, 1(1) Authors: Marika Cifor, J. A. Lee Journal Article, Academic Journal Tracing a Community of Practice: A Database of Early African-American Race Film (2017) The Moving Image, 17(2), pp. 101-105 Authors: Marika Cifor, H. Girma, W. Lam, S. Norman, Miriam Posner Journal Article, Academic Journal A Process Where Were All at the Table: Community Archives Challenging Dominant Modes of Archival Practice (2017) Archives and Manuscripts, 45(3), pp. 202-215 Authors: J. Zavala, M. Caswell, A. A. Migoni, N. Geraci, Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Acting Up, Talking Back: TITA, TIARA, and the Value of Gossip (2016) InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 12(1) Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Affect and the Archive, Archives and their Affects: An Introduction to the Special Issue (2016) Archival Science, 16(1), pp. 1-6 Authors: Marika Cifor, A. J. Gilliland Journal Article, Academic Journal Affecting Relations: Introducing Affect Studies to Archival Discourse (2016) Archival Science, 16(1), pp. 7-31 Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Aligning Bodies: Collecting, Arranging, and Describing Hatred for a Critical Queer Archives (2016) Library Trends, 64(4), pp. 756-775 Author: Marika Cifor Conference Paper Developing an Undergraduate Information Studies Curriculum in Support of Social Justice (2016) iConference 2016 Proceedings Authors: Marika Cifor, R. D. Montoya, M. H. Ramirez Journal Article, Academic Journal From Human Rights to Feminist Ethics: Radical Empathy in the Archives (2016) Archivaria, 81(Unknown Issue), pp. 23-83 Authors: M. Caswell, Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Introduction to Special Issue on Gender in Education and Information Studies: Interrogating Knowledge Production, Social Structures and Equitable Access (2016) InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 12(1) Authors: S. Wood, Marika Cifor, L. Illano Journal Article, Academic Journal Introduction to Spring 2016 Issue (2016) InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 12(2) Authors: S. Wood, Marika Cifor, L. Illano Digital Project Throughlines: Social Injustice and Activism in Los Angeles (2016) Authors: Marika Cifor, B. Paris Journal Article, Academic Journal To Be Able to Imagine Otherwise: A Framework for Understanding the Impact of Community Archives (2016) Archives and Records, 38(1), pp. 5-26 Authors: M. Caswell, A. A. Migoni, Marika Cifor, N. Geraci Journal Article, Academic Journal To Suddenly Discover Yourself Existing: Uncovering the Affective Impact of Community Archives (2016) The American Archivist, 79(1), pp. 56-81 Authors: M. Caswell, Marika Cifor, M. H. Ramirez Book, Chapter in Non-Scholarly Book-Revised Ephemeral Material: Queering the Archive, by Alana Kumbier (2015) Archival Issues Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Presence, Absence, and Victorias Hair: Affect and Embodiment in Trans Archives (2015) TSQ: Transgender Studies Quarterly, 2(4), pp. 645-649 Author: Marika Cifor Book Review Feminist and Queer Information Studies Reader, edited by Patrick Keilty and Rebecca Dean (2014) InterActions: UCLA Journal of Education and Information Studies, 10(2) Author: Marika Cifor Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Home and Oral Histories (2014) June L. Mazer Archives: Making Invisible Histories Visible: A Resource Guide to the Collections, pp. 61-63 Author: Marika Cifor Journal Article, Academic Journal Mobilizing Records: Re-Framing Archival Description to Support Human Rights (2014) Archival Science, 14(Unknown Issue), pp. 397-414 Authors: S. Wood, K. Carbone, Marika Cifor, A. J. Gilliland, R. Punzalan Book Review Serving LGBTIQ Library and Archives Users, edited by Ellen Greenblatt (2013) Archival Issues, 35(1), pp. 55-56 Author: Marika Cifor Conference Paper Editorial Statement (2012) Gender, Sexuality and Urban Spaces Working Papers Collection, Graduate Consortium of Womens Studies Authors: Marika Cifor, J. Deshayes, A. Peaker, F. Sattar, S. Struble, V. Vega Book Review Narrating from the Archive, by Marco Codeb (2011) The American Archivist, 74(2), pp. 702-705 Author: Marika Cifor Book Review The Ethical Archivist, by Elena S. Danielson (2011) NEA Newsletter, 38(4), pp. 26 Author: Marika Cifor Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New "Certainly there are many sorts of truth in the universe": Exclusions to the Universal in the Kinsey Institute's Classification Prectices Queer Data Authors: Marika Cifor, R. D. Montoya, B. Watson Digital Project ACT UP Los Angeles History Capsule Authors: Marika Cifor, W. Corrigan, S. Montoya, B. S. Paris Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Affect Uncertain Archives Author: Marika Cifor Book, Chapter in Non-Scholarly Book-New Affect Uncertain Archives Author: Marika Cifor Digital Project Early African American Film: Reconstructing the History of Silent Race Films, 1909-1930 Authors: M. Berry, Marika Cifor, K. Contreras, H. Girma, W. Lam, S. Norman, Miriam Posner, A. J. Yoshika Conference Paper Gendered by Design: A Duoethnographic Study of Personal Fitness Tracking Systems Proceedings of the 38th annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems (CHI '20) Authors: Marika Cifor, Patricia Garcia Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Queer Classification: Homosaurus Edition Grabbing Tea: Queer Conversations in Librarianship Authors: Marika Cifor, J. Colbert, C. Kronk, K.J. Rawson, B. Watson Journal Article, Academic Journal Revisiting A Feminist Ethics of Care in Archives: Introductory Note. Journal of Critical Library and Information Studies 3 Authors: M. Caswell, Marika Cifor Book, Scholarly-New Viral Cultures: Activist Archives at the End of AIDS Author: Marika Cifor Presentations The Archive is a Place Where Things Go to Live: Preservation and Power in Visual AIDS New Media Archiving (2021) Society for Cinema and Media Studies (SCMS) - Virtual An Archival Cure: Remedy, Care, and Curation of HIV-Positive Artists' Records with the Visual AIDS Archive Project (2020) UCLA Department of Information Studies Colloquium Series - Virtual Archival Materiality and Data Reuse (2020) Department of Management, Society and Communication, Copenhagen Business School - Copenhagen, Denmark Archive as Cure: Critical Nostalgia and HIV/AIDS in Visual AIDS Activist Archives (2020) Department of Information Studies Colloquium Series, Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California *Talk cancelled due to COVID-19 - Los Angeles, CA Archives and Community Engagement Practices (2020) Community Engagement Strategies in Information Science, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Archives, Human Rights, and Social Justice (2020) Information and Social Justice, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Beyond Medical Cure: Remedy, Care, and Curation of HIV-Positive Artists Records with the Visual AIDS Archive Project (2020) University of Arizona iSchool Colloquium Series - Virtual Critical Archival Description (2020) OntoGroup, iSchool, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Cure and the AIDS Archives: Activism and Survival in Visual AIDS' Archive Project (2020) Archival Education and Research Institute (AERI) *Conference cancelled due to COVID-19. - Philadelphia, PA Data Stains and Data Remains: The Epistemologies and Politics of Liveliness in Big Data Archives (2020) "Theorizing Reuse" Seminar Series at the Copenhagen Business School - Copenhagen, Denmark Digital Surveillance, Privacy, and Preservation in Community-based Archives (2020) Visual AIDS - Virtual Ethics in and of the Digital AIDS Archives (2020) Department of Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies Colloquium Series, University of Washington. *Talk cancelled due to COVID-19. - Seattle, WA Feminist Data and Archival Ethics (2020) Feminist Digital Humanities. Department of Arts and Cultural Studies, University of Copenhagen - Copenhagen, Denmark Feminist Data Manifest-No (2020) The Refusal Conference, UC Berkeley's Algorithmic Fairness and Opacity Working Group (AFOG) - Virtual Feminist Data: Refuse, Reform, Reimagine, Revolt (2020) Allied Media Conference - Virtual Gender and Design (2020) #CHIversity Virtual Talks, FemPowerTech. - Virtual Gendered by Design: A Duoethnographic Study of Personal Fitness Tracking Systems (2020) ACM CHI 2020 Journals - Honolulu, HI Introducing and Activating The Feminist Data Manifest-NO (2020) Data and Society - New York, NY Introducing Emerging Researchers to Publishing in LIS (2020) Society of American Archivists Annual Meeting - Virtual Lecture and Facilitation, Introducing and Activating the Feminist Data Manifest-NO (2020) Data and Society - New York, NY Nostalgia in and for Archives (2020) Theory and Politics of Collecting, Department of Information Studies, University of California Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA Publishing Special Issues and Developmental Editing for New Archival Scholars (2020) Joint Annual Meeting of the Council of State Archivists and the Society of American Archivists - Chicago, IL Reclaiming AIDS in Digital Media Studies (2020) American Studies Association Annual Conference *Conference cancelled due to COVID-19. - Baltimore, MD The Archive is a Place Where Things Go to Live: Preservation and Power in Visual AIDS (2020) New Media Archiving. Society for Cinema and Media Studies (SCMS), - Denver, CO The Feminist Data Manifest-No (2020) The Graduate Center, City University of New York (CUNY). *Talk cancelled due to COVID-19. - New York, NY Viral Cultures - Activist Archives at the End of AIDS (2020) University of Copenhagen Uncertain Archives Research Group - Copenhagen, Denmark #AIDSMemorial: Memory Resistance and the Disruptive Animacy of AIDS Archiving on Instagram (2019) Gender, Bodies and Technology Conference - Roanoke, Virginia #WhatIsRememberedLives: The Affective Politics of Archiving AIDS on Instagram (2019) Society for Cinema and Media Studies Conference - Seattle, Washington ACTing UP in the AIDS Archives: Gender, Race, and the (Un)Making of AIDS Histories (2019) National Womens Studies Association Conference - San Francisco, CA Activist Archiving as Cure: Art, Activism, and Survival in the HIV/AIDS Archives (2019) University of Hawaii at Mnoa - Honolulu, HI Advancing Critical Information Scholarship on Archives, Digital Media, and Memory (2019) University of Michigan School of Information - Ann Arbor, MI Archival Violences and Archiving Violence: Relationality, Accountability, and Sustainable Futures in Digital Archives (2019) American Studies Association Annual Meeting - Honolulu, HI Archive as Cure: The Promises of Visual AIDS Activist Archiving (2019) Memory Lives On: Documenting the HIV/AIDS Epidemic Conference - San Francisco, CA Digital Archives and the Representation of Difficult Knowledge (2019) Humanities, Arts, Science, and Technology Alliance and Collaboratory (HASTAC) Conference - Vancouver, BC Duoethnography: A Feminist Methodology for Examining Socio-Technical Systems (2019) ACM CHI 2019 Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - Glasgow, Scotland Expanding Our Reflexive Toolbox: Collaborative Possibilities for Examining Socio-Technical Systems Using Duoethnography (2019) 22nd ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW '19) - Austin, TX Feminist Research Seminar on Feminist Data (2019) Institute for Resaerch on Women and Gender, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI Inscribing Gender: A Duoethnographic Examination of Gendered Values in Fitness Tracker Design (2019) Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS) 52 - Maui, Hawaii Public Sharing, Private Lives: A Feminist Analysis of Tracking and Disclosing Health Data (2019) Society for the Social Studies of Science (4S) - New Orleans, LA Retro/Viral: Memory, (Dis)Identification, and the Economy of Archival Records on Tumblr (2019) Memory Studies Association Conference - Madrid, Spain Status = Undetectable: Curating for the Present and Future of AIDS (2019) Archival Education and Research Institute (AERI) - Liverpool, UK The Undetectable Archive: Curating for the Present and Future of AIDS (2019) 4th Annual Information + Humanities Conference - University Park, PA The Violence of Loss: Survival and Justice in the Digital AIDS Archives (2019) American Studies Association Annual Meeting - Honolulu, HI Viral as Metaphor: HIV/AIDS and Digital Technology and Culture (2019) Humanities, Arts, Science, and Technology Alliance and Collaboratory (HASTAC) Conference - Vancouver, BC What is Rememberd Lives': The Spatio-Temporal Disruption of Archiving AIDS on Instagram (2019) Digital Geographies Series, University of Kentucky - Lexington, KY Your Nostalgia is Killing Me! ACT UP Nostalgia, Historical Narratives and their Meaning in the Present (2018) Five College Womens Studies Research Center - South Hadley, Massachusetts An Archival Orientation to Managing Projects in the Digital Humanities (2018) Information Services for Culturally Diverse Communities, School of Computing and Information, University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Archival Temporalities on Display: Undetectability, Outreach, and Programming in AIDS Archives (2018) Temporal Belongings International Conference - Edinburgh, Scotland Community Archives and Archiving (2018) History in the Archives, History Department, Bowdoin College - Brunswick, Maine Feminist and Critical Theories in Information Studies Research (2018) Introduction to Doctoral Research in Information Science, Department of Information and Library Science, Indiana University - Bloomington, Indiana Feminist Ethics for Digital Heritage: Applying a Feminist Ethics of Care to Digital Archives and Archiving to Redress Structural Inequities (2018) DigitalHeritage 2018 - San Francisco, California Gender, Sexuality, and the Politics of Archival Representation (2018) Representation and Organization, Department of Information and Library Science, Indiana University - Bloomington, Indiana HIV/AIDS Activism Then and Now: In the Era of Silence=Death (2018) Bates College - Lewiston, Maine Making HIV Visible: Representation, Embodiment and Stigma on Dating Apps (2018) Society for Cinema and Media Studies Conference - Toronto, Canada The Classification of Sexuality at the Kinsey Institute for Sex Research (2018) ASIS&T Special Interest Group/Classification Research Workshop - Vancouver, British Columbia Viral Surveillance: HIV Status Disclosure, New Media, and the Criminalization of Difference (2018) Biennial Surveillance Studies Network Conference - Aarhus, Denmark Viral Transmission: Affect, Disidentification and the Curation of AIDS Activist Archives on Tumblr (2018) Society for the Social Studies of Science (4S) - Sydney, Australia Viral Visions: Affect, Identification and the Curation of Archival Images on Tumblr (2018) American Studies Association Annual Meeting - Atlanta, Georgia Your Nostalgia is Killing Me: Activism, Affect and the Archives of HIV/AIDS (2017) Jean Tague-Sutcliffe Doctoral Student Poster Competition, Association for Library and Information Science Education - Atlanta, Georgia Archives, New Media, and Activism: Advancing and Diversifying Feminist Digital Humanities Instruction and Scholarship (2017) Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, New York Embodying Data: Duoethnography as a Feminist Methodology for Studying Wearables (2017) Imagining Intersectional Futures: Feminist Approaches in CSCW Workshop, ACM Conference on Computer Supported Collaborative Work - Portland, Oregon Fitness Trackers Through a Feminist Lens (2017) Introduction to Digital and Computational Studies, Digital and Computational Studies Program, Bowdoin College - Brunswick, Maine Information Studies, Archives, and Feminist Praxis (2017) Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Program, Bowdoin College - Brunswick, Maine Revealing and Building a Community of Practice: A Database of Early African- American Race Film (2017) Documenting Cinema: Film Librarianship in the 21st Century - Los Angeles, California Stains and Remains: Liveliness, Materiality and the Archival Lives of Queer Bodies (2017) Archival Education and Research Institute, University of Toronto - Toronto, Canada Surveillance Countermeasures: Biopolitical Governance, Flawed Policing Reform and Resistance (2017) 2017 International Communications Association Pre-Conference on Media Justice: Race, Borders, Disability and Data - San Diego, California The Biopolitics of Self-Quantification: Duoethnography and the Study of Wearable Devices (2017) Society for the Social Studies of Science - Boston, Massachusetts Throughlines: Exposing Activism and Social Justice Issues in Los Angeles Transportation History (2017) Digital Humanities 2017 - Montreal, Canada Trans Archives and Archiving Practices (2017) Trans Studies in the Politics of Visibility, Gender and Sexuality Studies Department, Bates College - Lewiston, Maine Uncovering and Building a Community of Practice (2017) Looking Backwards and Moving Onwards: Excavating Feminist Media Histories Symposium, University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Undetectability: HIV/AIDS Activism, Biomedical Development and Archival Consequences (2017) American Studies Association Annual Meeting - Chicago, Illinois Undetectable: Representation, Temporality, and AIDS Archives (2017) Northeast Popular Culture Association Conference - Amherst, Massachusetts A Hypochondria of the Heart: Nostalgia, Activism, and the Archives of HIV/AIDS Activism (2016) American Studies Association Annual Conference - Denver Affect, Queer Theory and HIV/AIDS Archives (2016) Emerging Queer Archives Scholarship Panel, Library and Archives OUTreach, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Archival Description for Human Rights and Social Justice (2016) Understanding Records and Archives: Principles and Practices, School of Information, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, Michigan Archival Education for Social Justice: Changing the Conversation about Undergraduates and LIS (2016) Association for Library and Information Science Education - Boston, Massachusetts Archives and Neoliberalism (2016) Archives and Social Justice, Information Studies Department, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Archives, Action, AIDS: Archival Collaborations with Visual AIDS (2016) Rare Books and Manuscripts Section Conference, Association of College and Research Libraries - Miami, Florida Archiving Bodies: The Collection and Retention of Biometric Data and Refugee Identity (2016) National Womens Studies Association Conference - Montreal, Canada Blood, Sweat, and Hair: The Archival Potential of Queer and Trans Bodies (2016) Gender and Sexuality in Information Studies Colloquium, Simon Fraser University, - Vancouver, British Columbia Community, Memory and Collaboration in AIDS Archives (2016) Society of California Archivists Annual Meeting - Santa Rosa, California Critical Feminism in the Archives (2016) Archival Education and Research Institute, Kent State University - Kent, Ohio Developing an Undergraduate Information Studies Curriculum in Support of Social Justice (2016) iConference 2016 - Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Nostalgia and Artists Reuse of HIV/AIDS Activist Records (2016) Emerging Research in Information Studies Panel, Los Angeles Archivists Collective - Los Angeles, California Quantified Sex: Queer Archival Practices of Sexuality and Self (2016) Queer Circuits in Archival Times: Experimentation and Critique of Networked Data, CUNY Graduate Center - New York, New York Quantifying Sex: Technology, Capital, and Self in Live Cam Performances (2016) Society for the Social Studies of Science (4S) Annual Meeting - Barcelona, Spain Teaching Information Literacy: Towards a Critical Pedagogical Practice in Information Studies (2016) Critical Librarianship and Pedagogy Symposium, The University of Arizona - Tucson, Arizona The Critical Potential of Nostalgia (2016) Archival Education and Research Institute, Kent State University - Kent, Ohio We Care! Do You?: ACT UP Records, Feminist Ethics, and Radical Care (2015) Archival Education and Research Institute, University of Maryland, College Park - College Park, Maryland Archives, Feelings, Power (2015) Information and Power, Information Studies Department, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Critical Digital Literacy for Social Justice (2015) Biased Data: A Panel Discussion on Intersectionality and Internet Ethics, Collaboration for Liberation in Technology Lab, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles Digital Archives (2015) The Internet and Society, Information Studies Department, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Educating for Social Justice: Developing an Undergraduate Archival Studies Curriculum (2015) International Council on Archives Section on Archival Education and Training Conference, University of Maryland, College Park - College Park, Maryland Interview Methods for Information Studies Research (2015) Social Science Research Methodology, Information Studies Department, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Networks, Globalization, Activism, Slactivism (2015) Introduction to Information Studies, Information Studies Department, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Presence, Absence, and Victorias Hair: Examining Affect, Containment, and Embodiment in Trans Archives (2015) National Womens Studies Association - Milwaukee, Wisconsin Teaching Archival Literacy: The Challenges and Opportunities of Developing an Undergraduate Archival Studies Curriculum (2015) Society of American Archivists Research Forum - Cleveland, Ohio Affect, Archives & Records (2014) Information Structures, Information Studies Department, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Aligning Bodies: Hatred as an Organizing Principle in LGBTQ Archives (2014) Gender and Sexuality in Information Studies Colloquium - Toronto, Canada Harvey Milks Ponytail: The Affect of Intimacy in the Queer Archives (2014) Affect and the Archive Symposium, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Human Rights and Social Justice (2014) Grand Challenges Plenary Session, Archival Education and Research Institute, University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Identifying Research Contributions of Archival Studies and Recordkeeping to Societal Grand Challenges: A Report from the AERI Grand Challenges Working Group (2014) Society of American Archivists Research Forum - Washington, D.C. Love in the Archives: Examining Affective Labors in LGBTQ Archives (2014) National Womens Studies Association Conference - San Juan, Puerto Rico Oral History from the Inside: Documenting Activists from the June Mazer Lesbian Archives (2014) Southwest Regional Oral History Association Conference - Tempe, Arizona Queer Things: Lesbian Pulp Novels and the Archives (2014) Why Things Matter Conference, California State University - Fullerton, California That Other Hunger: Queering Lesbian Pulp Novels, Archives, and the Archival Record (2014) Queer Practices, Places and Lives Symposium, The Ohio State University - Columbus, Ohio Visceral Forces: Introducing Affect Studies to Archival Discourse (2014) Archival Education and Research Institute, University of Pittsburgh - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Unnatural Intimacies: Deviance, Sexuality and the Historical Relationships of Lesbians and Prostitutes, 1935-1969 (2012) Queer Practices, Places and Lives Symposium, The Ohio State University - Columbus, Ohio Unnatural Intimacies: Deviance, Sexuality and the Historical Relationships of Lesbians and Prostitutes, 1935-1969 (2012) Gendered Borders and Queer Frontiers Conference, University of Wisconsin - Madison, Wisconsin Documenting Sex(ualities) in the Archival Literature (2011) Archives, Libraries, Museums and Special Collections, International GLBT Conference, University of California, Los Angeles - Los Angeles, California Documenting Sex(ualities) in the Archival Literature (2011) New England Archivists Spring Meeting - Providence, Rhode Island Intimate Relations: An Examination of the Historical Relationship of Lesbians and Prostitutes in the United States, 1935-1965 (2011) Women's and Gender History Symposium, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign - Urbana-Champaign, Illinois Intimate Relations: An Examination of the Historical Relationship of Lesbians and Prostitutes in the United States, 1935-1965 (2011) Gender, Sexuality and Urban Spaces Conference, Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, Massachusetts The Body as Archive: Sexology, Science and the Historical Relationship of Lesbians and Prostitutes in the United States, 1869-1920 (2011) New England Historical Association - Boston, Massachusetts Unnatural Intimacies: Deviance, Sexuality and the Historical Relationships of Lesbians and Prostitutes, 1935-1965 (2011) Sallie Bingham Center for Womens History and Culture, Duke University - Durham, North Carolina Continuity and Rupture: Abortion in Germany and the United States, 1918-1945 (2010) University of Maine/University of New Brunswick International Graduate Student Conference - Orono, Maine Gendered by Design: A Duoethnographic Study of Personal Fitness Tracking Systems Dempower.techs Virtual #CHIversity2020 Series - Virtual The Feminist Data Manifest-NO and Doing Data Justice Social Analysis of Computing, Department of Informatics, University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA Using the Feminist Data Manifest-NO to Transform Information Studies Pedagogy Society for the Social Studies of Science (4S) - Prague, Czech Republic iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
