iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Negin Dahya Negin Dahya CV Affiliate Assistant Professor ndahya@uw.edu Website Affiliate Positions Adjunct Assistant Professor, University of Washington, Department of Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies Affiliate Faculty, University of Washington, Department of Communication, Center for Communication, Difference & Equity Specializations Refugee Education and Technology Digital Media and Learning Gender Studies Biography Dr. Negin Dahya is an Assistant Professor at the University of Toronto Institute of Communication, Culture, Information and Technology and Faculty of Information. Her research is focused on the social and cultural contexts of how digital media and communication technology are used and produced among girls, women, people of color, immigrants, and refugees. Her current projects are centered on how technology mediates educational practices and learning outcomes for refugee communities in refugee camps, with a current focus on mobile phones and social media applications. In addition, Dr. Dahya works locally with girls of color in Canada and USA. In this work, she explores the relationship between pedagogy, technology, and representation in media produced by young people. Theoretically, Dr. Dahya adopts a socio-technical lens, building on theory from science and technology studies, feminist theory, anti-oppressive education and critical pedagogies, postcolonial theory, and media and culture studies; methodologically, Dr. Dahya conducts ethnographic, qualitative, and visual research. She has published in Comparative Education, American Educational Research Journal, Learning, Media & Technology, and Diaspora, Indigenous, and Minority Education, among other journals, reports and public media. Dr. Dahya is a co-convener for the International Network for Education in Emergencies Technology Task Team. She sits on the Advisory Board for the Seattle based not-for-profit, Reel Grrls and has nearly a decade of experience as a media educator at the National Film Board of Canada. Education Ph D, Education, York University, 2014 M.Ed., York University, 2008 BA, English Literature/Psychology, University of British Columbia, 2005 Awards Palmer O. Johnson Award - American Educational Research Association, 2018 Consulting and Other Projects Na'ah Illahee Fund, 2016 GIZ Germany, USAID, World Vision International, & INEE, 2015 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Librarian perspectives on the role of virtual reality in public libraries (2020) 83rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&T '20) Authors: Jin Ha Lee, Kung Jin Lee, W.E. King, Negin Dahya Journal Article, Academic Journal Politics of Race, Gender, and Visual Representation in Feminist Media Education (2020) Discourse, Special issue on Child and Youth Engagement: Civic Literacies and Digital Ecologies, 41(5), pp. 673690 Authors: W.E. King, Negin Dahya Report Technology access & education for refugee women in Seattle & King County (2020) Authors: Negin Dahya, Maria Garrido, Katya Yefimova, Stacey Wedlake Conference Poster Virtual Reality in Washington State Libraries (2018) Connected Learning Summit 2018 Authors: Negin Dahya, Kung Jin Lee, W.E. King, Jin Ha Lee Journal Article, Academic Journal (En)Gendering videogame development: A feminist approach to gender, education & game studies (2017) Review of Education, Pedagogy & Culture, 39(4), pp. 367-390 Authors: Negin Dahya, Jennifer Jenson, Katrina Fong Blog Post A Socio-Technical Approach to Refugee Education (2017) Promising Practices in Refugee Education Author: Negin Dahya Magazine/Trade Publication Digital Media & Forced Migration: Critical Media Education For & About Refugees (2017) TELEVIZION Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Feminist Politics of Belonging: Participatory Culture and Youth Digital Video Production (2017) Annual Meeting of 4S (Society for Social Studies of Science) Authors: Negin Dahya, Mx. WE King Blog post (Brookings Institute - Education Plus Development) How Teachers Use Mobile Phones as Education Tools in Refugee Camps (2017) Authors: Sarah Dryden-Peterson, Negin Dahya, Dacia Douhaibi Journal Article, Academic Journal Pathways to educational success among refugees: Connecting locally and globally-situated resources (2017) American Educational Research Journal Authors: S. Dryden-Peterson, Negin Dahya, Elizabeth Adelman Journal Article, Academic Journal Tracing Pathways to Higher Education for Refugees: The Role of Virtual Support Networks and Mobile Phones for Women in Refugee Camps (2017) Comparative Education, 53(2), pp. 284-301, ISBN/ISSN: 1360-0486 Authors: Negin Dahya, Sarah Dryden-Peterson Journal Article, Academic Journal Critical perspectives on youth digital media production: 'voice' and representation in context (2016) Learning, Media & Technology - Special Issue on Voice and Representation in Youth Media Production in Educational Settings: Transnational dialogues Author: Negin Dahya White Paper Digital Youth Seattle Think Tank White Paper (2016) Authors: Karen Fisher, Katharine Davis, Jason Yip, Negin Dahya, Joanna Elizabeth Mills, Michael Eisenberg Report Education in Conflict and Crisis: How Can Technology Make a Difference? A Landscape Review (2016) Commissioned report for GIZ Germany, USAID, World Vision International. Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper HCI, forced migration and refugees: Collaborations across borders and fields (2016) CHI 2016 Development Consortium 2016: HCI Across Borders Authors: Karen Fisher, Katya Yefimova, Negin Dahya, Eiad Yafi, Elizabeth M. Belding, Maren Borkert, Guanghua Chi, Arul Chib, Claire Cravero, Dana Diminescu, Oliver Farshi, Kathie Friedman, Pete Giencke, Vikki Katz, Paul Schmitt, Nguyen T. Hoan, Jeff Wishnie, Volker Wolf Guest Editor for Special Issue of Journal Learning, Media & Technology Special Issue: Voice and Representation in Youth Media Production in Educational Settings: Transnational Dialogues (2016) Learning, Media & Technology Editors: Ines Dussel, Negin Dahya Conference Paper (En)Gendering Videogame Design: A Feminist Intervention in Pedagogy and Practice (2015) Console-ing Passions: International Conference on Television, Video, Audio, New Media & Feminism Authors: Negin Dahya, Jennifer Jenson Conference Paper (Re)making digital imaginaries with videogame development: Do-it-Yourself (DIY) disruptions to social inequity (2015) Authors: Negin Dahya, Jennifer Jenson Journal Article, Academic Journal Mis/Representations in School-Based Digital Media Production: An Ethnographic Exploration with Muslim Girls (2015) Diaspora, Indigenous and Minority Education, 9(2), pp. 108-123 Authors: Negin Dahya, Jennifer Jenson Conference Paper Sociotechnical frameworks of digital video production: a postcolonial feminist analysis of visual media (2015) The Gendered Politics of Production Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Sociotechnical pedagogy: an intervention to inequality with videogame production (2015) Society for Social Studies of Science (4S) Authors: Negin Dahya, Jennifer Jenson Journal Article, Academic Journal Teachers Conceptions of Student Engagement in Learning: The case of four urban schools (2015) Alberta Journal of Educational Research, 61(1), pp. 1-20 Authors: Khaled Barkaoui, Sarah Elizabeth Barrett, Julia Samaroo, Negin Dahya, Shahnaaz Alidina, Carl James Conference Workshop Paper Youth perspectives on equity, access and information exchange in educational technology: Implications for research, practice, and policy (2015) Workshop, Digital Media & Learning Conference Authors: Katharine Davis, Karen Fisher, Negin Dahya, Jason Yip, Michael Eisenberg, Joanna Elizabeth Mills Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Power Struggles: Knowledge production in a DIY news club (2014) DIY Citizenship: Critical Making and Social Media, pp. 168-178 Authors: Jennifer Jenson, Negin Dahya, Stephanie Fisher Newspaper Education: A Challenge to Terror (2013) The Globe and Mail Authors: Sarah Dryden-Peterson, Wenona Giles, Negin Dahya Online publication Education: A Challenge to Terror (2013) The Globe and Mail; The Huffington Post Authors: Sarah Dryden-Peterson, Wenona Giles, Negin Dahya Journal Article, Academic Journal Exploring the challenges of conducting respectful research: The seen and unforeseen methodological factors within urban school research (2013) Canadian Journal of Education, 36(3), pp. 438-457 Authors: Julia Samaroo, Negin Dahya, Shahnaaz Alidina Conference Paper Postcolonial Feminist Theory, Digital Media and Learning: Exploring the lives of Muslim girls in one Toronto school. (2013) American Educational Research Association Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Transnational Mentoring for Success in Post-Primary Education: A conceptual framework and mapping of practice (2013) Comparative International Education Society Authors: Sarah Dryden-Peterson, Negin Dahya Journal Article, Academic Journal Valuing Production Values: A 'Do It Yourself' Media Production Club. (2013) Learning, Media & Technology, 39(2), pp. 215-228 Authors: Jennifer Jenson, Negin Dahya, Stephanie Fisher Conference Paper Looking through Student Experiences: Unveiling the School-Community Divide. (2012) Proceedings of the American Educational Researcher Association 2012 Annual Conference Roundtable Discussion Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Borderless Higher Education for Refugees. (2012) Canadian Association for Refugees and Forced Migration Studies Authors: Negin Dahya, A. Orgocka, B. Pilkington Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia Learning at Play (2012) Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Looking through Students Experiences: Using digital media to unveil complexities in the school-community divide for Muslim girls. (2012) Digital Media and Learning Conference Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Social Age and Education: A focus group discussion with WUSC students from Dadaab (2012) Canadian Association for Refugees and Forced Migration Studies Authors: D. Dippo, Negin Dahya Conference Paper Education for All: Provision of portable higher education for long-term refugees. (2011) UNHCR Annual Consultation with NGOs Authors: D. Dippo, Negin Dahya Conference Paper Exploring the implications of respectful research: The seen and unforeseen methodological factors within urban school research. (2011) 55th Annual Conference of the Comparative and International Education Society Authors: J. Samaroo, Negin Dahya, S. Alidina Conference Paper Future Boundaries: Actor Network Theory, posthumanism and transnational diasporas. (2011) Graduate Student Conference of the Centre for Diaspora and Transnational Studies Authors: Negin Dahya, N. El-Hadi Conference Paper Planning for Production: Scaffolding institutional structures and their impact on youth empowerment. (2011) Digital Media and Learning Conference Authors: J. Jenson, Negin Dahya, S. Fisher, N. Taylor Conference Paper Digital Naifs: Researchers experiences scaffolding student productions. (2010) ED-MEDIA World Conference on Multimedia, Hypermedia & Telecommunications Authors: J. Jenson, Negin Dahya, N. Taylor, S. Fisher Conference Paper Implications of (De)colonizing Research Methodologies: The seen and unforeseen methodological factors within urban school research. (2010) Canadian Society for the Study of Education (CSSE) Annual Conference Authors: J. Samaroo, Negin Dahya, S. Alidina Conference Paper Teachers Conceptions of Student Engagement in Learning: The case of four urban schools. (2010) Canadian Society for the Study of Education (CSSE) Annual Conference Authors: K. Barkaoui, S.E. Barrett, J. Samaroo, Negin Dahya, S. Alidina Conference Paper Gameplay Dynamics: Pleasure and skill through repetition. (2009) Canadian Society for the Study of Education (CSSE) Annual Conference Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Learning Through Gameplay: An examination of four serious online videogames. (2009) 8th Annual Graduate Conference in Education, New Directions: People, Passion and Pedagogy Author: Negin Dahya Journal Article, Academic Journal Serious Learning in Playful Roles: Socio-political games for education. (2009) Loading, 3(4) Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Remediating Education for Social Change in Ayiti: The cost of life. (2008) Canadian Game Studies Association Conference Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper "Darfur is Dying": Have you played the game yet? (2007) Centre for Refugee Studies Student Conference Redefining Borders Author: Negin Dahya Conference Paper Serious games and political representation: Learning, ideology, and gameplay. (2007) Interacting with Immersive Worlds Author: Negin Dahya Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Feminist perspectives and mobile culture(s): power and participation in girls' digital video making communities Feminist Interventions in Participatory Media: Pedagogy, Publics, Practice Authors: Negin Dahya, W.E. King Journal Article, Academic Journal Perceptions and experiences of Virtual Reality in public libraries Journal of Documentation Authors: Jin Ha Lee, Negin Dahya, W.E. King, Kung Jin Lee Presentations A Socio-Technical Approach to Refugee Education: Connected Networks and ICTs in Kenyan Refugee Camps (2018) University of Califronia Irvine Seminar Series, Department of Informatics - Irvine, CA Exploring the Role of ICTs in Refugee Education: Teaching and Learning Networks in Kenyan Refugee Camps (2018) University of Washington Computer Science and Engineering Change Seminar - Seattle, WA In/text conversation: transnational teacher training in refugee camps and mobile phones (2018) Comparative International Education Society Annual Conference - Mexico City, Mexico Action for Teachers of Refugees (2017) Carey Institute for Global Good - Web Feminist perspectives on participatory culture: tools and tales in girls digital media production (2017) Child and Youth Engagement, Civic Literacies and Digital Ecologies Symposium, Brock University - St. Catharines, ON, Canada The Right to Education (2017) Committee on Human Rights of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine Symposium on Protecting the Rights of Individuals Fleeing Conflict: The Role of Scientists, Engineers, and Health Professionals - Washington, DC Context, pedagogy and learning pathways: key concerns in ICT for education in conflict and crisis. (2016) Comparative International Education Society Annual Conference - Vancouver, BC, Canada Education in Conflict and Crisis How Can Technology Make a Difference? (2016) Education and forced displacement How can technology make a difference?; Inter-Agency Network for Education in Emergencies (INEE) webinar - online Mobile Technologies & Community Networks in Refugee Education: Case Studies from Kenyan Refugee Camps (2016) UBC Faculty of Education, Department of Curriculum & Pedagogy Seminar - Vancouver, BC, Canada Postcolonial Perspectives on YouTube Communities & Girls' Video Production: Changing Landscapes with Mobile Phones (2016) National Womens Society Association Annual Conference - Montreal, QC, Canada Social media and social networks in refugee education: tracing digital pathways to higher education (2016) Comparative International Education Society Annual Conference - Vancouver, BC, Canada Context, Pedagogy and Learning Pathways: ICT for Education in Conflict and Crisis (2015) mEducation Alliance Symposium - Washington, D.C. Digital youth: The state of affairs (invited panelist) (2015) Digital Media and Learning - Los Angeles, CA Inequities of Digital Media Production (2015) Equity Connection - The Center for Communication, Difference & Equity, Department of Communications, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Refugee education from the outside: influences and opportunities with/in digital media (2015) Refugee School Impact Grant - School's Out Washington - Seattle, WA Seattle Digital Youth Think Tank 2014: Inaugural Reporting Out. (2015) Annual Meeting of the American Library Association - San Francisco, CA Seattle Digital Youth Think Tank 2014: Overview and White Paper Directions (2015) Digital Youth Workshop, iConference 2015 - Newport Beach, CA Digital Youth - The State of Affairs (2014) Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science & Technology (ASIS&T) 2014 - Seattle, WA Inventing Equity: Fostering media production and participation in local and global contexts (2014) Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Mediating Postcoloniality: Addressing the impact of social structures on the media production of Muslim girls (2014) Digital Media and Learning Conference - Boston, MA Transnational Mentoring: Exploring online educational support networks for refugees (2014) Comparative International Education Society 2014 - Toronto, ON, Canada Interrupting Postcoloniality in Education: Exploring Mobile Technology and Media Literacy for Global Equity in Teaching and Learning (2013) Faculty of Education, University of Ontario Institute of Technology - Oshawa, ON, Canada Postcolonial Feminist Theory, Digital Media and Learning: Exploring the Lives of Muslim Girls Using Technology (2013) Media Education Research Workshop, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, University of Toronto - Toronto, ON, Canada Procedures and Constraints in Serious and Persuasive Online Games: Examining the existing and future development of serious videogames (2008) Canadian Game Studies Association Invitational Workshop - Vancouver, BC, Canada iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
