iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Andrew Reifers Andrew Reifers CV Associate Teaching Professor areifers@uw.edu Mary Gates Hall 330A Specialization Cybersecurity Courses IMT 555 - Foundations Of Cybersecurity INFO 310 - Information Assurance And Cybersecurity Biography Andrew Reifers is an Associate Teaching Professor at the University of Washington Information School where he teaches both undergraduate and graduate level courses in cybersecurity and information management. Reifers uses his previous experience as a network security engineer, principle application security consultant and chief technology officer to teach students about how cybersecurity will tangibly impact the world we live in via technology. He received his doctorate in information sciences and technology from Pennsylvania State University. Education Ph D, Information Sciences and Technology, Pennsylvania State University, 2010 BS, Psychology, Western Oregon University, 2003 Publications and Contributions Book, Scholarly-New Network Access Control List Situation Awareness (2010) Author: Andrew Reifers Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Lessons from defining theories of stress (2007) Integrated models of cognitive systems Authors: F. E. Ritter, Andrew Reifers, L. C. Klein, M. Schoelles Abstract of poster presented at the annual meeting of the American Psychosomatic Society Effects of caffeine and stress on cortisol and serial subtraction performance in young healthy men (2006) Psychosomatic Medicine, 68(1), pp. A-62 Authors: J. M. Bennett, C. A. Whetzel, F. E. Ritter, Andrew Reifers, L. C. Klein Conference Paper Counting On ACT-R to Represent Time (2005) Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Authors: D. Cassenti, Andrew Reifers Conference Paper Image processing in cognitive models with SegMan (2005) Proceedings of HCI International Authors: R. St. Amant, M. O. Reidl, F. E. Ritter, Andrew Reifers Conference Paper Using cognitive modeling to study behavior moderators: Pre-task appraisal and anxiety (2004) Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Authors: F. E. Ritter, Andrew Reifers, L. C. Klein, K. Quigley, M. Schoelles Journal Article, Academic Journal MemAerobics: A cognitive intervention to improve memory ability and reduce depression in older adults (2003) Journal of Mental Health and Aging Authors: R. G. Winningham, R. A. Anunsen, L. Laux, L. Hanson, K. Kaus, Andrew Reifers Presentations Modeling Pre-Attentive Visual Search in the ACT-R/PM Cognitive Architecture (2005) Cognitive Science Conference - Stresa, Italy Modeling the effects of caffeine on visual signal detection (VSD) in a cognitive architecture (2005) Applied Attention Conference - Champaign, Illinois Steps towards a CAD/CAM system for Human-Computer Interfaces (2005) School of Computer Science and Information Systems, Pace University - New York, New York The effects of pre-task appraisals and caffeine on cognition: Data and models (2005) ACT-R 2005 Workshop - Trieste, Italy Using ACT-R To Progress Theories of Pre-Attentive Visual Search (2005) ACT-R 2005 Workshop - Trieste, Italy The effects of MemAerobics on memory, life satisfaction and depression (2003) Western Psychological Association meeting - Vancouver, British Columbia MemAerobics and Depression: The effects of MemAerobics, a cognitive enhancement program, on life satisfaction, depression, and social interaction in a geriatric population (2002) Western Oregon University Psi Chi Conference - Monmouth, Oregon iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
