iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Angie Ong Angie Ong CV Guest Faculty Member aong@uw.edu Alumni Hall Specializations Audience Research & Evaluation Informal Learning Environments Museums & Technology Biography After spending 15 years in consumer and technology marketing, including a 10-year stint at Microsoft, Angie decided to pursue a lifelong passion for learning, teaching, and storytelling. She has since worked across many museum disciplines including fundraising, collections management, and exhibition development, and public programming. Over the past decade, Angie has focused on the field of audience research and evaluation field and has served many rolesas practitioner, advocate, and teacher. She was formerly a research associate at the Institute for Learning Innovation, the evaluation manager at Pacific Science Center and founded a Seattle-based museum consulting firm. Angie has led and contributed to numerous evaluation projects as well as multi-year research studies funded by NSF, IMLS, NASA and NIH. Her work involves designing, developing, and implementing evaluation studies, facilitating project planning, conducting evaluation capacity-building workshops, and supporting grant-writing efforts. Education MA, Museum Studies, The George Washington University, 2007 BBA, Marketing and Business Development, Wilfrid Laurier University, 1993 Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal Empowering Museum Educators to Evaluate: Using One Evaluation to Affect Many (2015) Journal of Museum Education, 40(1), pp. 55-61 Authors: Angie Ong, C. Cadenhead Technical Report Portal to the Public Network: Summative Evaluation Report (2014) Author: Angie Ong Technical Report The Studio: Summative Evaluation Report (2014) Authors: Angie Ong, C. Cadenhead Journal Article, Academic Journal Exhibit Review: Object Stories (2011) Museums & Social Issues, 5(2), pp. 275-281 Authors: J. Ancelet, S. Butler, Angie Ong Technical Report Portal to the Public guiding framework: Determining the value of a model for scientist-visitor interaction (2011) Authors: J. Sickler, S. Foutz, Angie Ong, M. Storksdiek, J. Kisiel Presentations Survey Says! Improving Survey Effectiveness (2019) Washington Museum Association - Spokane, WA Building Evaluation Capacity through University Engagement and Expertise (2018) Annual conference of the Washington Museum Association, - Bellingham, WA Collective Insights: Strategies for culturally responsive capacity building (2018) Annual meeting of the Visitor Studies Association - Chicago, IL Leveraging Audience Evaluation in Development (2018) Annual conference of the Washington Museum Association - Bellingham, WA Evaluation 101: Thinking Evaluatively (2015) Washington Museum Association Conference - Goldendale, WA Museum Educators Guide to the Galaxy (2015) Museum Educators of Puget Sound - Bremerton, WA Developing the Evaluator Pipeline: A look at teaching visitor studies (2014) Annual meeting of the Visitor Studies Association - Albuquerque, NM Evaluation 101: Measuring Success (2013) Museum Educators of Puget Sound and Washington Museum Association - Seattle, WA Creating a Portal to the Public: A Research Study (2011) Annual conference of the Association of Science and Technology Centers - Honolulu, HI Crossing Contexts: What Families Value about Museum Experiences (2011) Annual conference of the American Association of Museums - Houston, TX Developing Instruments in Uncharted Territory (2010) Annual conference of the American Association of Museums - Los Angeles, CA Where the Rubber Meets the Road: Economy, Tourism, and Museums (2009) Annual conference of the American Association of Museums - Philadelphia, PA iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
