iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Jessica Luke Jessica Luke CV Teaching Professor, Director, Museology Graduate Program jjluke@uw.edu 206-685-3496 Box 359485 Specializations Learning in Museums: critical thinking, play, and social emotional learning Family Involvement in Learning Research Areas Learning Sciences Health and Well-Being Biography Jessica Luke is a Teaching Professor in the Information School at the University of Washington as well as the Director of the Museology Graduate Program. Lukes research focuses on museums and youth development, family learning, and parent involvement. She is interested in the role that museums play in information behavior and early learning and how these impact human development over an entire life span. Luke has a Ph.D. in Educational Psychology from the University of Maryland, a Masters in Museum Studies from the University of Toronto, and a B.A. in Art History and Political Studies from Queens University. Education Ph D, Educational Psychology, University of Maryland, 2009 M.M.St., Museum Studies, University of Toronto, 1998 BA, Art History and Political Studies , Queen's University, 1995 Memberships American Alliance of Museums American Educational Research Association Association of Children's Museums National Art Education Association Visitor Studies Association Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal The problem of play in children's museums (2021) International Journal of Play, 10(1), pp. 63-74 Authors: Jessica Luke, N Rivera, L Colbert, C Scharon Journal Article, Academic Journal The bloody hell and holy cow moment: Feeling awe in the art museum (2021) Curator: The Museum Journal, 64(2), pp. 41-55 Author: Jessica Luke Journal Article, Academic Journal What caregivers observe about their childrens learning during a visit to the childrens museum (2019) Journal of Museum Education, 44(4), pp. 427-428 Authors: Jessica Luke, E.D. Tomczuk, S. Foutz, N. Rivera, L. Brahms, K. Nelson, B. Hahn, M. Swank, K. McKenney Journal Article, Academic Journal Play in childrens museums: A path forward or a point of tension? (2017) Curator: The Museum Journal, 60(1), pp. 37-46 Authors: Jessica Luke, Susan Letourneau, Nicole Rivera, Lisa Brahms, Sarah May Journal Article, Professional Journal The impact of art museum dementia-based programming on participating care partners (2016) Journal of Museum Education, 41(31), pp. 210-219 Authors: Katherine Lamar, Jessica J Luke Journal Article, Professional Journal An art therapy study of visitor reactions to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (2015) Journal of Museum Management and Curatorship, 30(1), pp. 21-43 Authors: D. J. Betts, J. S. Potash, Jessica Luke, M. Kelso Journal Article, Professional Journal Children's museum research agenda (2014) Hand to Hand: Association of Children's Museums Journal Authors: Jessica J Luke, Victoria Garvin Journal Article, Academic Journal The role of evaluation in re-imagining the art museum (2014) Journal of Museum Education, 39(2), pp. 197-206 Authors: Jessica Luke, J. E. Ancelet Journal Article, Professional Journal Museums and parent involvement: A landscape review (2013) Journal of Museum Management and Curatorship, 28(5), pp. 491-507 Authors: K. Tezcan-Akmehmet, Jessica Luke Presentations Evaluations during the pandemic (2020) Puget Sound Grantwriters Association - Seattle, WA Museum studies programs coming together in COVID-19 (2020) Annual meeting of the American Alliance of Museums - Seattle, WA (virtual) The future of small, local history museums (2020) The Board of the Bainbridge Island History Museum - Seattle, WA Social-emotional learning in childrens museums (2019) Presentation for the Members of Museum Advocates - Nashville, TN What research tells us about museum studies graduate programs (2019) Museum Studies Network at the annual meeting of the American Alliance of Museums - New Orleans, LA Audience research and evaluation in public gardens (2018) Museum Advocates - Nashville, TN Getting serious about the value of play in childrens museums (2017) Annual Meeting of the Association of Children's Museums - Pasadena, CA Innovative evaluations (2017) Puget Sound Grantwriters Association - Seattle, WA Audience research and evaluation in public gardens (2016) American Public Garden Association Education Symposium - Seattle, WA Lets talk about play (2016) Annual meeting of the Association of Childrens Museums - Stamford, CT What do we really mean? The power of museum jargon (2016) Annual meeting of the American Alliance of Museums - Washington, DC A discussion about work life balance (2015) KidsQuest Children's Museum - Bellevue, WA Audience evaluation and engagement in small, local history museums (2015) 4Culture - Seattle, WA Ensuring the success of your grant-funded programs (2015) Puget Sound Grantwriters Association - Seattle, WA From field to institution: Putting research agendas into action (2015) Annual Meeting of the Visitor Studies Association - Indianapolis, IN Re-Imagining family-centered design (2015) Annual Meeting of the American Alliance of Museums - Atlanta, GA What can we do to make museums more engaging for families and early learners? (2015) Burke Museum of Natural History - Seattle, WA Consultant-institution partnerships for strengthening evaluation capacity (2014) Panel session conducted at the annual meeting of the Visitor Studies Association - Albuquerque, NM Growing a culture of research in museums (2014) Panel session conducted at the annual meeting of the American Alliance of Museums, Visitor Studies Association - Seattle, WA Lessons learned from institutionalizing evaluation in art museums (2014) Panel session conducted at the annual meeting of the American Alliance of Museums - Seattle, WA Our shared journey (2014) Graduation Keynote Speech, Museology Graduate Program - Seattle, WA Research agendas and field-wide capacity-building (2014) Panel session conducted at the annual meeting of the Visitor Studies Association - Albuquerque, NM What we know and don't know from research in the arts (2014) The Intersection of Research and Policy: Arts and Culture Symposium, Crystal Bridges Art Museum - Bentonville, AR Applying research results to practice (2013) Session conducted at the annual meeting of the National Art Education Association - Fort Worth, TX Developing a field-wide research agenda (2013) Session conducted at the annual meeting of the Association of Children's Museums - Pittsburgh, PA Research to practice: Developing actionable strategies (2013) A half-day workshop conducted at the annual meeting of the Visitor Studies Association - Milwaukee, WI The value of children's museums (2013) Presentation for Board of Directors, KidsQuest Children's Museums - Bellevue, WA Crossing Contexts: What Families Value about Museum Experiences (2011) Annual conference of the American Association of Museums - Houston, TX iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
