iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Katie Davis Katie Davis CV Associate Professor, Ph.D. Program Chair kdavis78@uw.edu 206-221-7741 Mary Gates Hall 015D Website Fax: 206-616-3152 Affiliate Positions Visiting Research Scientist , Hasso Plattner Institut, Universitt Potsdam Adjunct Associate Professor, College of Education, University of Washington Specializations Child-Computer Interaction Learning Sciences Digital Youth Research Areas Digital Youth Learning Sciences Courses INFO 300 - Research Methods INSC 500 - Faculty Seminar Biography Dr. Katie Davis is an Associate Professor at the University of Washington Information School, Adjunct Associate Professor in the UW College of Education, and a founding member and Co-Director of the UW Digital Youth Lab. Her research explores the role of new media technologies in young peoples personal, social, and academic lives, with a particular focus on the intersection between technology and identity development during adolescence and emerging adulthood. Katie is the co-author with Howard Gardner of "The App Generation: How Todays Youth Navigate Identity, Intimacy, and Imagination in a Digital World" (2013, Yale University Press). She holds two masters degrees and a doctorate in Human Development and Education from Harvard Graduate School of Education. In addition to publishing and presenting her research in scholarly venues, Katie regularly shares her work with parents, teachers, industry leaders, and policymakers in an effort to build connections between research and practice. Learn more about her research at: www.katiedavisresearch.com Education EDD, Human Development and Education, Harvard Graduate School of Education, 2011 EdM, Risk and Prevention, Harvard Graduate School of Education, 2009 EdM, Mind, Brain, and Education, Harvard Graduate School of Education, 2002 BA, English, Williams College, 2000 Awards Best Paper Nomination - CSEDU 2020 (Computer Supported Education), 2020 CoMotion-Population Health Innovation Fund Award - University of Washington, 2018 Early Career Development Award - National Science Foundation, 2015 Nominated for UW Distinguished Teaching Award - UW Center for Teaching and Learning, 2015 Rising Star recognition - Association for Psychological Science, 2015 Academic Career Enhancement (ACE) Award - Yahoo!, 2013 Memberships Association for Psychological Science Association for Computing Machinery International Society of the Learning Sciences American Educational Research Association Society for Research in Child Development Association of Internet Researchers Society for Research on Identity Formation Society for Research on Adolescence Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Connected learning, collapsed contexts: Examining teens sociotechnical ecosystems through the lens of digital badges (2021) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '21) Authors: Caroline Pitt, A. Bell, B. S. Boyd, N. Demmel, Katharine Davis Conference Paper The kids are / not / sort of all right: Technologys complex role in teen wellbeing during COVID-19 (2021) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '21) Authors: Caroline Pitt, A. Hock, L. Zelnick, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Using the design-based implementation research method to designa connected learning toolkit for youth-serving public library staff (2021) Library & Information Science Research, 43(1) Authors: Ilanko Subramaniam, K.M. Hoffman, Caroline Pitt, Katharine Davis Conference Paper When screen time isnt screen time: Tensions and needs between tweens and their parents during nature-based exploration (2021) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '21) Authors: Saba Kawas, Nicole Kuhn, E. E. Bascom, Alexis Hiniker, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Introduction to special issue: Adolescent and emerging adult development in an age of social media (2020) Journal of Adolescent Research, 35(1) Authors: Katharine Davis, L. Charmaraman, E. Weinstein Conference Paper NatureCollections: Can a mobile application trigger childrens interest in nature? (2020) Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Supported Education (CSEDU 20) Authors: Saba Kawas, Jordan Sherry-Wagner, Nicole Kuhn, Sarah K. Chase, Brittany Bentley, Joshua J. Lawler, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Otter this World: Can a Mobile Application Promote Childrens Connectedness to Nature? (2020) Interaction Design and Children (IDC 2020), pp. 444-457 Authors: Saba Kawas, Nicole Kuhn, Mina Tari, Alexis Hiniker, Katharine Davis Op-ed The app generation meets the pandemic (2020) Seattle Times Authors: Katharine Davis, Howard Gardner Conference Paper "Everything's the Phone": Understanding the Phones Supercharged Role in Parent-Teen Relationships (2019) Proceedings of the 37th annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems (CHI 19), 227(Unknown Issue), pp. 1-14 Authors: Katharine Davis, Anja Dinhopl, Alexis Hiniker Conference Paper A Badge, Not a Barrier: Designing forand ThroughoutDigital Badge Implementation (2019) CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Proceedings (CHI 2019), pp. 14 Authors: Caroline Pitt, Adam Bell, Edgar Onofre, Katie Davis Conference Paper Adaptive support for collaboration on tabletop computers (2019) Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Computer Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL '19), 1(Unknown Issue), pp. 176-183 Authors: Abigail Evans, Katharine Davis, Jacob O. Wobbrock Blog Post Announcing the ConnectedLib Toolkit for Youth-Serving Library Professionals and Professionals-in-Training (2019) Connected Learning Alliance Author: Katharine Davis Toolkit ConnectedLib Toolkit (2019) Authors: Milly Romeijn-Stout, Katharine Davis, Mega Subramaniam Report How disparities in wealth affect Gen Zs experiences with technology. Understanding Gen Z Special Projects Report. (2019) Pacific Standard Author: Katharine Davis Conference Paper Modeling the Engagement-Disengagement Cycle of Compulsive Phone Use (2019) Proceedings of the 37th annual ACM conference on human factors in computing systems (CHI 19), 312(Unknown Issue), pp. 1-14 Authors: J. A. Tran, K. S. Yang, Katharine Davis, Alexis Hiniker Blog Post Participatory politics in an age of crisis (2019) Confessions of an Aca-Fan: The Official Weblog of Henry Jenkins Authors: Yomna Elsayed, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Sparking interest: A design framework for mobile technologies to promote childrens interest in nature (2019) International Journal of Child-Computer Interaction Authors: Saba Kawas, Sarah K. Chase, Jason Yip, Joshua Lawler, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Supporting learners' STEM-oriented career pathways with digital badges (2019) Information and Learning Science, 120(1/2), pp. 87-107 Authors: Caroline Pitt, Adam Bell, Rose Strickman, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Informal computing mentoring of low-income adolescents: Relationships, roles, qualities, and impact (2018) Proceedings of SIGCSE 2018 Authors: Amy J. Ko, Leanne Hwa, Katharine Davis, Jason Yip Journal Article, Public or Trade Journal Learning and engagement in a gamified course: Investigating the effects of student characteristics (2018) Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 34(5), pp. 492-503 Authors: Katharine Davis, H. Sridharan, Lucas Koepke, S. Singh, Robert Boiko Journal Article, Academic Journal Playing in the virtual sandbox: Students collaborative practices in Minecraft (2018) International Journal of Game-Based Learning, 8(3), pp. 56-76 Authors: Katharine Davis, Julian Boss, Perry Meas Journal Article, Academic Journal Songwriting to learn: How high school science fair participants use music to communicate personally relevant scientific concepts (2018) International Journal of Science Education, 8(4), pp. 307-324 Authors: S.J. Ward, R.M. Price, Katharine Davis, G.J. Crowther Journal Article, Academic Journal Using technology to support equity and inclusion in youth library programming: Current practices and future opportunities (2018) Library Quarterly, 88(4), pp. 315-331 Authors: Mega Subramaniam, Ligaya Aline Scaff, Saba Kawas, Kelly M Hoffman, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Computing mentorship in a software boomtown: relationships to adolescent interest and beliefs (2017) ACM International Computing Education Research Conference (ICER) Authors: Amy J. Ko, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Designing together?: Group dynamics in participatory digital badge design with teens (2017) Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Interaction Design and Children (IDC 17), pp. 322-327 Authors: Caroline Pitt, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Digital life and youth well-being, social-connectedness, empathy, and narcissism (2017) Pediatrics, 140(S2), pp. S71-S75 Authors: C. James, Katharine Davis, L. Charmaraman, S. Konrath, P. Slovak, E. Weinstein, L. Yarosh Conference Paper Group Touch: Distinguishing tabletop users in group settings via statistical modeling of touch pairs (2017) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '17) Authors: Abigail Evans, Katharine Davis, J. Fogarty, Jacob O. Wobbrock Journal Article, Academic Journal Identity and agency in school and afterschool settings: Investigating digital media's supporting role (2017) Digital Culture & Education, 9(1), pp. 31-47 Authors: Katharine Davis, A. Ambrose, M. Orand Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Identity development in the digital age: An Eriksonian perspective (2017) Identity, sexuality, and relationships among emerging adults in the digital age, pp. 1-17 Authors: Katharine Davis, E. Weinstein Conference Paper More than peer production. Fanfiction communities as sites of distributed mentoring. (2017) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW 17), pp. 259-272 Authors: S. A. Evans, Katharine Davis, Abigail Evans, J. Campbell, David Randall, Kodlee Yin, C. Aragon Journal Article, Academic Journal Tweens' perspectives on their parents' media-related attitudes and rules: An exploratory study in the US (2017) Journal of Children and Media, 11(3), pp. 358-366 Authors: Ada S. Kim, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Where no one has gone before: A meta-dataset of the worlds largest fanfiction repository (2017) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW 17), pp. 6106-6110 Authors: K. Yin, C. Aragon, Sarah Evans, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Modeling collaboration patterns on an interactive tabletop in a classroom setting (2016) ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW 16), pp. 860-871 Authors: Abigail Evans, Jacob O. Wobbrock, Katharine Davis White Paper Connected Libraries: Surveying the Current Landscape and Charting a Path to the Future (2016) The Connected Lib Project Authors: Kelly M. Hoffman, Mega Subramaniam, Saba Kawas, Ligaya Aline Scaff, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Connected learning in and after school: Exploring technology's role in the diverse learning experiences of high school students (2016) The Information Society, 32(2), pp. 98-116 Authors: Katharine Davis, Sean Fullerton Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Designing digital badges for an informal STEM learning environment (2016) Digital badges in education: Trends, issues, and cases, pp. 145-155 Authors: E. Klein, Katharine Davis White Paper Digital Youth Seattle Think Tank White Paper (2016) Authors: Karen Fisher, Katharine Davis, Jason Yip, Negin Dahya, Joanna Elizabeth Mills, Michael Eisenberg Journal Article, Public or Trade Journal How Fan Fiction Mentors Can Change Lives (2016) School Library Journal Authors: Sarah Evans, David Randall, Julie Campbell, Katharine Davis, Cecilia Aragon, Abigail Evans Conference Paper Learning through participatory design: Designing digital badges for and with teens (2016) Proceedings of the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Interaction Design and Children (IDC 16), pp. 218-229 Authors: Adam Bell, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Leveraging the power of music to improve science education (2016) International Journal of Science Education, 38(1), pp. 73-95 Authors: Gregory J. Crowther, Tom McFadden, Jean S. Fleming, Katharine Davis Conference Paper Thousands of positive reviews: Distributed mentoring in online fan communities (2016) ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing (CSCW 16), pp. 691-704 Authors: J. Campbell, Cecilia Aragon, Katharine Davis, Sarah Evans, Abigail Evans, David Randall Journal Article, Academic Journal "I was bullied too": Stories of bullying and coping in an online community (2015) Information, Communication and Society, 18(4), pp. 357-375 Authors: Katharine Davis, David Randall, A. Ambrose, M. Orand Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Connecting 'round the clock: Mobile phones and adolescents' experiences of intimacy (2015) Encyclopedia of Mobile Phone Behavior, 2(Unknown Issue), pp. 937-946 Authors: E. Weinstein, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Digital badges in afterschool learning: Documenting the perspectives and experiences of students and educators (2015) Computers & Education, 88(Unknown Issue), pp. 72-83 Authors: Katharine Davis, S. Singh Conference Short Paper Distributed mentoring in online fan fiction communities: Promoting equity, access, and openness in learning (2015) Panel presentation, Digital Media and Learning Conference Authors: Katharine Davis, J. Campbell, Abigail Evans, D. P. Randall, S. A. Evans Journal Article, Academic Journal Integration of math jingles into physiology courses (2015) Journal of Mathematics Education, 8(2), pp. 56-73 Authors: G. J. Crowther, Katharine Davis, L. D. Jenkins, J. L. Breckler Conference Paper Writing within community: How mentoring works in online fan fiction (2015) Young Adult Library Services Association Symposium Authors: S. A. Evans, J. Campbell, Katharine Davis, Abigail Evans, D. P. Randall, Cecilia Aragon Conference Workshop Paper Youth perspectives on equity, access and information exchange in educational technology: Implications for research, practice, and policy (2015) Workshop, Digital Media & Learning Conference Authors: Katharine Davis, Karen Fisher, Negin Dahya, Jason Yip, Michael Eisenberg, Joanna Elizabeth Mills Journal Article, Academic Journal A decline in creativity? It depends on the domain (2014) Creativity Research Journal, 26(1) Authors: Emily C. Weinstein, Zachary Clark, Donna DiBartolomeo, Katharine Davis Op-Ed Are Apps Becoming a Human Crutch? Op-Ed (2014) The Seattle Times Authors: Katharine Davis, Howard Gardner Book Preface Preface to the paperback edition of The App Generation (2014) The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world Authors: Howard Gardner, Katharine Davis Op-Ed The App Generation: How technology is changing us. Op-Ed. (2014) Cognoscenti Authors: Howard Gardner, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal The changing landscape of peer aggression: A literature review on cyberbullying and interventions (2014) Journal of Youth Development, 9(1), pp. 130-142 Authors: Katharine Davis, Justin Reich, Carrie James Magazine/Trade Publication The value of getting lost in an app-suffused world (2014) School Administrator, pp. pg. 21-22 Author: Katharine Davis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Youth identities in a digital age: The anchoring role of friends in youths approaches to online identity expression (2014) Mediated youth cultures: The internet, belonging, and new cultural configurations, pp. 11-25 Author: Katharine Davis Book Introduction Youth perspectives on social media and technology (2014) AM:STARs: Social Networking & New Technologies, 25(3), pp. xvii-xxi Authors: M. A. Moreno, Katharine Davis, Joanna Elizabeth Mills Journal Article, Academic Journal "Amino Acid Jazz": Amplifying biochemistry concepts with content-rich music (2013) Journal of Chemical Education, 90(Unknown Issue), pp. 1479-1483 Authors: Gregory J. Crowther, Katharine Davis Research Report Technique and content in the works of young artists: A methodological contribution (2013) Good Work Project Report Series, Authors: DJ DiBarolomeo, Z Clark, Katharine Davis Book, Scholarly-New The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2013) pp. 256, ISBN/ISSN: 978-0300196214 Authors: Howard Gardner, Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Tweens conceptions of privacy online: Implications for educators (2013) Learning, Media and Technology, 38(1), pp. 4-25 Authors: Katharine Davis, C James Journal Article, Academic Journal Young people's digital lives: The impact of interpersonal relationships and digital media use on adolescents' sense of identity (2013) Computers in Human Behavior, 29(Unknown Issue), pp. 2281-2293 Author: Katharine Davis Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia Adolescent learners' characteristics (2012) Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning, pp. 134-136 Author: Katharine Davis Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia Adult learners' characteristics (2012) Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning, pp. 136-138 Author: Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Five minds our children deserve: Why theyre needed, how to nurture them. (2012) Journal of Educational Controversy, 6(1) Authors: Katharine Davis, H Gardner Journal Article, Academic Journal Friendship 2.0: Adolescents experiences of belonging and self-disclosure online (2012) Journal of Adolescence, 35(6), pp. 1527-1536 Author: Katharine Davis Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Ill pay attention when Im older: Generational differences in trust (2012) Restoring Trust, pp. 47-67 Authors: Katharine Davis, J Ryan, C James, M Rundle, H Gardner Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New My trust needs to be earned, or I dont give it: Youths mental models of trust (2012) Restoring Trust, pp. 25-45 Authors: M Rundle, C James, Katharine Davis, J Ryan, J M Francis, H Gardner Journal Article, Academic Journal Tensions of identity in a networked era: Young peoples perspectives on the risks and rewards of online self-expression. (2012) New Media & Society, 14(4), pp. 634-651 Author: Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal A life in bits and bytes: A portrait of a college student and her life with digital media. (2011) Teachers College Record, 113(9), pp. 1960-1982 Author: Katharine Davis Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia The theory of multiple intelligences (2011) Cambridge Handbook of Intelligence, pp. 485-503 Authors: Katharine Davis, J Christiandoulou, S Seider, H Gardner Journal Article, Academic Journal Coming of age online: The developmental underpinnings of girls blogs (2010) Journal of Adolescent Research, 25(1), pp. 145-171 Author: Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal Fostering cross-generational dialogues about the ethics of online life (2010) Journal of Media Literacy Education, 2(2), pp. 124-150 Authors: Katharine Davis, S L Katz, R Santo, C James Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New The pedagogy of GoodWork: Strategies of engagement (2010) GoodWork: Theory and practice, pp. 257-269 Author: Katharine Davis Book Entry, Almanac or Encyclopedia Trust: Its conceptualization by scholars, its status with young persons (2010) Political and civic leadership: A reference handbook, volume 2 Authors: Katharine Davis, H Gardner Journal Article, Academic Journal Adolescent friendships on LiveJournal (2009) Rocky Mountain Communication Review, 6(1), pp. 47-50 Author: Katharine Davis Research Report Meeting of Minds: Cross-generational dialogue on the ethics of digital life (2009) Authors: R Santo, C James, Katharine Davis, S L Katz, L Burch, B Joseph Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Morality, ethics and good work: Young peoples respectful and ethical minds (2009) Morality, ethics and gifted minds Authors: S Seider, Katharine Davis, H Gardner Research Report New digital media, social institutions and the changing roles of youth (2009) Good Work Project Report Series, 61(Unknown Issue) Authors: M Wiegel, Katharine Davis, C James, H Gardner Research Report Rethinking girls development in a digital era (2009) FIfF-Kommunikation, 26(3), pp. 48-51 Author: Katharine Davis Research Report Social development in the era of new digital media (2009) Good Work Project Report Series, Authors: Katharine Davis, M Wiegel, C James, H Gardner Research Report Young people, ethics, and the new digital media: A synthesis from the GoodPlay Project. (2009) The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Reports on Digital Media and Learning Authors: C James, Katharine Davis, A Flores, J Francis, M Rundle, H Gardner Research Report Trust in the lives of young people: A conceptual framework to explore how youth make trust judgments (2008) Good Work Project Report Series, 52(Unknown Issue) Author: Katharine Davis Journal Article, Academic Journal When false representations ring true (and when they dont) (2008) Social Research, 75(4), pp. 1085-1108 Authors: Katharine Davis, S Seider, H Gardner Journal Article, Professional Journal Good work in psychology (2007) The Psychologist, 20(11), pp. 672-676 Authors: S Seider, Katharine Davis, H Gardner Research Report Is trust on the wane? It may depend on where you live (2006) Good Work Project Report Series, Author: Katharine Davis Conference Paper Technology use in rural and urban public libraries: Implications for connected learning in youth programming Authors: Katharine Davis, Mega Subramaniam, Kelly Hoffman, Milly Romeijn-Stout Conference Paper Using digital badges to promote student agency and identity in science learning Proceedings of the Connected Learning Summit (CLS '18) Authors: Katharine Davis, Caroline Pitt, Adam Bell, Suhkyung Kim Book, Scholarly-New Writers in the secret garden: Fanfiction, youth, and new forms of mentoring Authors: Cecilia Aragon, Katharine Davis Presentations All in the Family: A Conversation about Media Rules, Parental Controls, and Family Media Plans (2021) Children and Screens: Institute of Digital Media and Child Development - Remote Webinar Coping through COVID: Understanding Technologys Role in Teen Resilience and Wellbeing (2020) Oregon Psychiatric Physicians Association Fall Conference - Virtual Digital badges and soft skill development: Teen self-assessment beyond STEM contexts (2020) Annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association (AERA) - San Francisco, CA Human development in a digital world (2020) he Future of Education Series: Human Development and Psychology: The Long View. Harvard Graduate School of Education - Cambridge, MA Large-scale learning environments: Writers in the secret garden (2020) Episode 12, Silver Lining for Learning series - Virtual Raising Good Gamers Research roundtable (2020) Games for Change Virtual Festival - Virtual So youve earned a badge, now what? Supporting students digital badge literacy. (2020) Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association (AERA) - San Francisco, CA Teen Health (2020) CRA Virtual Conference 2020 - Virtual What My Little Pony Can Teach Us About Interest-Driven Learning (2020) 2020 Learning at Scale Conference - Virtual Youth agency in a digital age (2020) Annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association (AERA) - San Francisco, CA Agency and Identity in Networked Environments: Insights from Researching and Designing for Today's Digital Youth (2019) Universitt Wiens #YouthMediaLife Lectures series - Wien, Austria Designing for youth agency in a digital age (2019) Conference on Digital Youth Growing Up in a Novel Social Space, Leibnitz University - Hannover, Germany Insights from studying and designing for todays digital youth (2019) Leuven School for Mass Communication Research, KU Leuven - Leuven, Belgium Supporting and transforming learning with networked technologies (2019) Department of Library and Information Science, Humboldt University - Berlin, Germany The tech effect: Understanding and supporting todays digital youth (2019) 100 Women in Finance (100WF) - Hamilton, Bermuda Empowering youth co-designers to promote student adoption of a digital badge system (2018) American Educational Research Association (AERA) - New York, NY Informal computing mentoring of low-income adolescents: Relationships, roles, qualities, and impact (2018) SIGCSE 2018 - Baltimore, MD The Tech Effect: Understanding and Supporting Today's Digital Youth (2018) Entel - Santiago, Chile The tech effect: Understanding and supporting today's digital youth (2018) University Child Development School - Seattle, WA The Tech Effect: Understanding and Supporting Today's Digital Youth (2018) Seminar with Howard Gardner event - Santiago, Chile The tech effect: Understanding and supporting today's digital youth (2018) Facebook Headquarters - Menlo Park, CA Promoting equity and access in public libraries computer-supported youth programming (2017) 12th International Conference on Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL) - Philadelphia, PA Co-designing a digital badge system: Supporting learners science identities through participatory design. (2016) In P. Bell (Ed.) Researchers and practitioners co-designing for expansive science learning and educational equity. Paper symposium conducted at the 12th International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) - Singapore Connected learning in public libraries: What's it going to take to turn every library into a connected learning library (2016) Presentation given at the annual meeting of the Digital Media and Learning (DML) Conference, University of California - Irvine, CA Designing digital badges with and for users: A collaborative design approach (2016) In T. Horstman, C. Gamrat & K. Davis (Chairs) (Ed.) Democratizing learning through digital badges: Theoretical and analytical frameworks to advance design and research. Structured poster session conducted at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association (AERA). - Washington, DC Documenting distributed learning in online fanfiction communities. (2016) In E.C. Weinstein & D. Patton (Ed.) Digital posts as data: Opportunities, puzzles, and methodological considerations of studying youths digital communications, 2016 Society for Research in Child Development (SRCD) Special Topic Meeting Technology and Media in Childrens Development - Irvine, CA From cyber safety to digital citizenship: Changing our conversations with kids (2016) University Child Development School - Seattle, Washington The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2016) Keynote speech at Washington State Higher Education Building Bridges Technology Conference - Spokane, Washington The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2016) Keynote speech at Healthy Youth Partnership Conference - Austin, Texas Digital youth: The state of affairs (invited panelist) (2015) Digital Media and Learning - Los Angeles, CA Exploring the role of networked technologies in learners developing identities (2015) Cyberlearning 2015, National Science Foundation - Arlington, VA Seattle Digital Youth Think Tank 2014: Inaugural Reporting Out. (2015) Annual Meeting of the American Library Association - San Francisco, CA Sexting in the context of growing up online (2015) Facebook Sexting Roundtable - Menlo Park, CA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) Mercer Island Parent Edge Speaker Series - Mercer Island, WA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) CHI 2015 - Seoul, Korea The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) Lakeside School - Seattle, WA The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) Sungkyunkwan University Distinguished Lecture Series - Seoul, Korea The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) St. Paul's School - Concord, New Hampshire The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) 2015 Heads and Board Chairs Conference, Canadian Accredited Independent Schools (CAIS) - Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) University Prep - Seattle, WA The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) Atlantic Conference of Independent Schools (ACIS) annual meeting - Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) Society for Women Engineers - Seattle, WA The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2015) STEAM Power 2015, sponsored by the Gates Foundation Visitor Center, Pacific Science Center, and the EMP Museum - Seattle, WA The App Generation: How todays youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world. (2015) Seattle Academy of Arts and Sciences - Seattle, WA Assessing change in adolescents' art-making over time: A methodology (2014) Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association - Philadelphia, PA Connecting learning with digital badges: Exploring the formal and informal learning experiences of youth from non-dominant backgrounds (2014) Presentation given at the Annual Meeting of the Digital Media and Learning Conference, MacArthur Foundation - Boston, MA Cultivating digital citizenship: Strategies for approaching dilemmas of privacy and identity online (2014) Interactive course conducted at the 7th Annual 21st Century Learning Conference - Hong Kong, China Cultivating digital citizenship: Strategies for approaching dilemmas of privacy and identity online (2014) Interactive courses conducted at the Future of Learning Institute and the Project Zero Classroom, Harvard Graduate School of Education - Cambridge, MA Digital Youth - The State of Affairs (2014) Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science & Technology (ASIS&T) 2014 - Seattle, WA Digital Youth: Towards a new multidisciplinary research network (2014) Workshop conducted at the annual iConference 2014 - Berlin, Germany Innovating education practice through digitial badges: Recent research, current practices, and future directions (2014) (Chair and Session Organizer), Symposium conducted at the Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association - Philadelphia, PA Literacy, expertise, and experience in gaming (2014) Paper symposium conducted at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association - Philadelphia, PA Sing about science: Leveraging the power of music to improve science education (2014) Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association - Philadelphia, PA Stakeholders' perceptions of the opportunities, challenges, and value of digital badges in education (2014) Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association - Philadelphia, PA The App Generation (2014) Invited plenary talk at the Project Zero Classroom, Harvard Graduate School of Education - Cambridge, MA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Guest speaker at Glenbard School District's Parent Series: Navigating Healthy Families - Glen Ellyn, IL The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Keynote speaker at the 2014 Early Learning STEM Institute, Thrive Washington - Seattle, WA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Invited speaker at Microsoft Research's Visiting Speaker Series - Redmond, WA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Featured speaker at the Learning & the Brain Conference - San Francisco, CA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Invited speaker at Town Hall Seattle - Seattle, WA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Keynote speaker at the 7th Annual 21st Century Learning Conference - Hong Kong, China The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Invited speaker at the Annenberg Public Policy Center?s Speaker Series 2013-2014, University of Pennsylvania - Philadelphia, PA The App Generation: How today's youth navigate identity, intimacy, and imagination in a digital world (2014) Featured speaker at TEDSalon Berlin: Bits of Knowledge, TED Salon Berlin - Berlin, Germany The human brain and social media: How are individuals changing? (2014) Invited speaker at Cattolica de Sacro Cuore University - Milan, Italy Askwith Forum: The App Generation (2013) Public lecture series, Harvard Graduate School of Education - Cambridge, MA Badges for lifelong learning (2013) iAffiliates Day, The Information School - Seattle, WA Bullying: How does it start and how do we stop it? (2013) Issues that Matter public forum, Sno-Isle Libraries - Lake Stevens, WA Charting a research trajectory from conceptual development to construct measurement (2013) Guest Lecture in INSC 570-Research Design, University of Washington Information School - Seattle, WA Digital youth workshop: Calling all designers, researchers, and policy makers. Scholarship in action: data, innovation, wisdom (2013) iConference 2013 - Fort Worth, TX GoodPlay online: Exploring digital ethics and new media literacies (2013) Roots of Empathy Research Symposium, GoodPlay - Toronto, ON, Canada Identity development in the digital age: Identity work on social networking sites (2013) Annual Meeting of the Society for Research on Identity Formation - Saint Paul, MN Leveraging new media technologies to make learning more engaging (2013) 5th Annual DUB Retreat, UW's inter-department Human-Computer Interaction and Design Research Group - Seattle, WA Overview of the Digital Youth Summit 2014 (2013) Presentation to the MLIS Advisory Board, University of Washington Information School - Seattle, WA Round table I: Research to practice (2013) School Library and Technology Exploratory Workshop, ALA - Seattle, WA School Library and Technology Exploratory Workshop (2013) American Library Association Midwinter Meeting - Seattle, WA Studying the 'App Generation': New media's role in youth identity, intimacy, and imagination (2013) Guest Lecture in LIS 566-Young Adult Materials, University of Washington Information School - Seattle, WA Teen design days: Promoting youth civic engagement through design thinking (2013) McArthur Digital Media & Learning Conference - Chicago, IL The App Generation (2013) Lectures & Readings series, 92nd Street Y - New York, NY The App Generation (2013) Public lecture series, Cambridge Forum - Cambridge, MA The GoodPlay Project: Exploring ethics and new media literacies (2013) Interactive courses conducted at the Future of Learning Institute and the Project Zero Classroom, Harvard Graduate School of Education - Cambridge, MA The GoodPlay Project: Exploring ethics and new media literacies (2013) Interactive courses conducted at 'Developing Responsible, Caring & Balanced Youth: A GoodWork Conference', Project Zero - Dedham, MA The identites of today's digital youth: Coherent or fragmented? (2013) Annual Meeting of the Society for Research on Identity Formation - Saint Paul, MN Theory with practice: Teachers' perspective on and experiences with digital media and media literacy education (2013) Annual Meeting, National Association for Media Literacy Education - Torance, CA Today's digital youth: Growing up in a hyper-connected, multi-tasking, media-rich world (2013) Upward Bound Summer Program Orientation, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Understanding inequalities in digital media and learning (2013) Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association - San Francisco, CA Understanding inequalities in digital media and learning (2013) American Educational Research Association - San Francisco, CA Building community online: Opportunities, challenges, and the role of schools (2012) Annual Meeting, American Educational Research Association - Vancouver, BC, Canada Researching digital youth: Developing and validating survey instruments (2012) Guest lecture in INSC 570, Research Design, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Researching digital youth: Theoretical foundations (2012) Guest lecture in INSC 570, Research Design, The Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA The GoodPlay Project: Exploring ethics and digital life (2012) Professional development course, Association of Independent Schools of New England (AISNE) - Milton, MA The GoodPlay Project: Exploring ethics and digital life (2012) Interactive courses conducted at the Future of Learning Institute and the Project Zero Classroom, Harvard Graduate School of Education - Cambridge, MA The space between generations: What's different about today's digital youth? (2012) TEDx South Lake Union Women, Microsoft Women of Research, UW Women in Informatics, and Women in Bio Seattle Metro - Seattle, WA Young people's digital lives: The impact of digital media use and interpersonal relationships on adolescents' sense of identity (2012) Society for Research on Adolescence - Vancouver, BC, Canada Young people's digital lives: The role of new media in youth identity and relationships (2012) School of Education and Social Policy, Northwestern University - Evanston, IL Young people's digital lives: The role of new media in youth identity and relationships (2012) Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Young people's digital lives: The role of new media in youth identity and relationships (2012) Information School, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
