iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Cheryl A. Metoyer Cheryl A. Metoyer CV Associate Professor Emeritus metoyer@uw.edu 206-685-9612 Affiliate Positions Director, iNative, University of Washington Adjunct Associate Professor Emeritus, University of Washington, American Indian Studies Specializations Native North American Indigenous Knowledge Tribal Libraries, Archives, and Museums Information Seeking and Use in Culturally Diverse Communities Research Areas Indigenous Knowledge Information and Society Biography Cheryl A. Metoyer is an associate professor emeritus and the director of iNative (formally the Indigenous Information Research Group) at the iSchool and adjunct associate professor emeritus in American Indian Studies. Dr. Metoyer's research interests include indigenous systems of knowledge with an emphasis on American Indian and Alaska Native tribal nations; information seeking behaviors in cultural communities; and ethics and leadership in cultural communities. After completing her Ph.D., Dr. Metoyer, working as a Project Director at the National Indian Education Association, assisted tribes and state agencies in planning and developing library services in urban and reservations communities. Over the years, she has had the honor of assisting the Mashantucket Pequot, Cahuilla, San Manuel, Yakama, Navajo, Seneca, Mohawk and the Lakota nations in the development of their libraries, archives and museums. In 2018, Dr. Metoyer received the Legacy Award from the American Indian Library Association. Before joining the iSchool faculty, Dr. Metoyer was the Chief Academic Affairs Officer for the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation. She also served on the faculty of the UCLA Graduate School of Library and Information Science. From 1993 to 1997, Dr. Metoyer held the Rupert Costo Chair in American Indian History at the University of California, Riverside. In 2006. she was awarded a Rockefeller Fellowship in the Humanities to pursue her study of Native American systems of knowledge. Over the years, Dr. Metoyer has been a member of several advisory boards, including the Newberry Library DArcy McNickle Center for American Indian History, the Southwest Museum, the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the National Museum of the American Indian, and the University of Arizona, Knowledge River Program. She also holds the distinction of being elected as the American Indian delegate to the White House Conference on Libraries and Information Services. Recently, Dr. Metoyer was appointed to the UW House of Knowledge Planning Committee. She has published in major research journals, including 'College & Research Libraries,' 'Library and Information Science Research,' and 'American Indian Culture and Research Journal.' The Association of College and Research Libraries honored her book 'Gatekeepers in Ethnolinguistic Communities.' Education Ph D, Library & Information Science, Indiana University, 1976 MA, Immaculate Heart College, 1969 BA, Immaculate Heart College, 1968 Awards Legacy Award - American Indian Library Association, 2018 Rockefeller Fellowship in the Humanities - Newberry Library, 2006 Rupert Costo Endowed Chair in American Indian History - University of California, Riverside, 1993-1997 Consulting and Other Projects Yakama Nation - SAMSHA Drug-Free community grant, 2014 Memberships American Indian and Alaska Native Professors Association American Indian Library Association National Indian Education Association Native American and Indigenous Studies Association Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal Early Literacy in Library Storytimes: A Study of Measures of Effectiveness. (2016) Library Quarterly, 86(4), pp. 369-388, ISBN/ISSN: 00242519 Authors: Kathleen Campana, Joanna Elizabeth Mills, Janet L Capps, Eliza Dresang, Allyson Carlyle, Cheryl A. Metoyer, Ivette Bayo Urban, Erika Feldman, Marin Brouwer, Kathleen Burnett, Bowie Kotrla White Paper Impact, advocacy, and professional development: An exploration of storytime assessment in Washington state (2015) Authors: Joanna Elizabeth Mills, Kathleen Campana, Sean Fullerton, Marin Brouwer, Allyson Carlyle, Cheryl A. Metoyer, Journal Article, Academic Journal Introduction to special issue: Cataloging & Classification Quarterly Special Issue - Indigenous Knowledge Organization (2015) Cataloging & Classification Quarterly Special Issue - Indigenous Knowledge Organization, 53(5-6), pp. 475-478 Authors: Cheryl A. Metoyer, Ann M Doyle Journal Article, Academic Journal Knowledge Organization from an Indigenous Perspective: The Mashantucket Pequot Thesaurus of American Indian Terminology Project (2015) Cataloging & Classification Quarterly Special Issue - Indigenous Knowledge Organization, 53(5-6), pp. 640-657 Authors: Sandra Littletree, Cheryl A. Metoyer Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Privacy in the Family (Moore A., Primary author) (2015) The Social Dimensions of Privacy, pp. 104-121 Authors: Bryce Newell, Cheryl A. Metoyer, Adam Moore Conference Poster Native Systems of Knowledge (poster) (2014) Research Fair 2014 Authors: Cheryl A. Metoyer, Sandra Littletree, Miranda Belarde-Lewis, Marissa Duarte, Juan-Carlos Chavez, Ross Braine, Tess Cervantes, Ivette Bayo Urban, Sheryl Day Conference Poster Poster: Indigenous Knowledge Organization (IKO) Project: Knowledge Organization from an Indigenous Perspective (2013) Research Fair, Information school, University of Washington, Seattle Author: Cheryl A. Metoyer Journal Article, Academic Journal Leadership in American Indian Communities: Winter Lessons (2011) American Indian Culture and Research Journal, 34(4), pp. 12-Jan Author: Cheryl A. Metoyer Conference Paper Language, Text and Knowledge Organization: One Native American Story (2009) 20th Annual SIG CR Workshop: Bridging Worlds, Connecting People: Classification Transcending Boundaries Author: Cheryl A. Metoyer Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Academic Library Directors of Color and Their Means of Self-Renewal (2008) Academic Librarians as Emotionally Intelligent Leaders, pp. 107-122 Authors: Cheryl A. Metoyer, Peter Hernon Journal Article, Academic Journal Early literacy in library storytimes Part 2: A quasi-experimental study and intervention with children's storytime providers Library Quarterly Authors: Joanna Elizabeth Mills, Kathleen Campana, Allyson Carlyle, Bowie Kotrla, Eliza Dresang, Ivette Bayo Urban, Janet Capps, Cheryl A. Metoyer, Erika Feldman, Marin Brouwer, Kathleen Burnett Presentations Engaging American Indian and Alaska Native Undergraduates in Research: A Co-Creation Model (2018) Colloquium on Undergraduate Research - Seattle, WA Guest lecture: HONORS 231 The Record of Us All: The Past, Present, and Future of the Human Record (2018) UW College of Arts and Sciences - Seattle, WA Guest lecture: CHID 480 Special Topics: Advanced Study of the History of Ideas (2015) UW College of Arts & Sciences - Seattle, WA Guest lecture: INFX 583 Cross Cultural Approaches to Leadership (2015) UW Information School - Seattle, WA Are We There Yet? The Four Directions in Native American Higher Education (2014) Samuel E. Kelly Distinguished Faculty Lecture, University of Washington - Seattle, WA In Our Camp: Relationality in Native American Knowledge Organization (2014) University of Saskatchewan Library Dean's Research Lecture - Saskatoon, SK, Canada Opening remarks (2014) Spencer Shaw Lecture, UW Information School - Seattle, WA Remarks (2014) Research Fair, UW Information School Research Fair - Seattle, WA Welcome presentation (2014) Center for Contemplative Mind in Society annual conference - Seattle, WA Remarks (2013) Research Fair, UW Information School Research Fair - Seattle, WA Remarks (2013) Raven's Feast Graduation Ceremony at Daybreak Star Cultural Center, UW Department of American Indian Studies - Seattle, WA All Things Connected: Relationality in Native American Knowledge Organization (2012) Research Colloquium, University of British Columbia, School of Library and Archival Studies - Vancouver, BC, Canada Archival Creative Fiction: Indigenous Peoples Existence and Resistance in the Archival Multiverse (2012) Native American and Indian Studies Association Conference - Uncasville, CT Organization of Indigenous Knowledge (2012) International Association of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) Presidential Programme Spring Meeting - Vancouver, BC, Canada The Institutional Perspective: Senior Faculty Panel (2012) iConference 2012 - Toronto, ON, Canada Traditional Cultural Expressions: Librarians at the Intersection of Intellectual Freedom and Tribal Sovereignty (2012) ALA Conference 2012 - Anaheim, CA Artistry at Work (2011) Tribal Libraries, Archives and Museum Conference - Anchorage, AK I am the Corn: Relationality in Native American Knowledge Organization (2011) Annual Ted Samore Lecture, University of Wisconsin, School of Information Studies - Milwaukee, WI Information: A Critical Analytic for Indigenous Scholars (2011) Native American and Indigenous Studies Association Conference - Sacramento, CA Artistry at Work (2010) National Conference, Association of Tribal Archives, Libraries, and Museums - Portland, OR Building Capacity Through Information Policy (2010) National Congress of American Indians Conference - Albuquerque, NM Career Path in the Academy (2010) Suquamish Reservation - Suquamish, WA Information Policy: Strategies for Strengthening Tribal Governance (2010) Tribal Leader/Scholar Forum, Breakout Session, NCAI - National Congress of American Indians - Rapid City, SD Intellectual Property Issues: American Indian Perspectives (2010) Delegation of Korean Students, Sung Kyun Kwan University & University of Washington - Seattle, WA Networking and Mentoring for Professional Development (2010) Annual Conference, Association of Tribal Archives, Libraries, and Museums - Portland, OR Networking in Career Stratgey (2010) National Conference, Tribal Libraries, Archives and Museums - Portland, OR Research, Students and the House of Knowledge (2010) Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indian Conference - Spokane, WA Four Directions, Four Gifts (2008) Raven's Feast, Native American Graduation Celebration, Daybreak Star Arts Center, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Genesis of a Research Project (2008) Managerial Leadership in the Information Professions, Simmons College - Boston, MA In My Mother's House: Gifts of Wellness (2008) Indigenous Wellness Research Institute, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Language, Text and Knowledge Organization: One Native American Story (2008) iWorld Conference, Information School, University of Washington - Seattle, WA Leaders Wanted: Is an LIS Doctoral Program Right for You? (2008) Annual Conference, ALA - American Library Association - Anaheim, CA Library Recruitment (2005) National Conference, Association of Tribal Archives, Libraries, and Museums - Mesa, AZ The Power of Language: The Legacy of the Mashantucket Museum (2005) Exhibit Symposium: Hero, Hawk and Open Hand, Art Institute of Chicago - Chicago, IL iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
