iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Tim Althoff Tim Althoff CV Adjunct Assistant Professor talthoff@uw.edu Biography Tim Althoff is an Assistant Professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering and an Adjunct Assistant Professor at the Information School at the University of Washington. His research advances computational methods to improve human well-being, combining techniques from Data Mining, Social Network Analysis, and Natural Language Processing. Tim holds Ph.D. and M.S. degrees from the Computer Science Department at Stanford University, where he worked with Jure Leskovec. Prior to his PhD, Tim obtained M.S. and B.S. degrees from the University of Kaiserslautern, Germany. He has received several fellowships and awards including the SAP Stanford Graduate Fellowship, Fulbright scholarship, German Academic Exchange Service scholarship, the German National Merit Foundation scholarship, and a Best Paper Award by the International Medical Informatics Association. Tims research has been covered internationally by news outlets including BBC, CNN, The Economist, The Wall Street Journal, and The New York Times. Education Ph D, Computer Science, Stanford University, 2018 MS, Computer Science, Stanford University, 2015 MS, Computer Science, University of Kaiserslautern, 2013 BS, Computer Science, University of Kaiserslautern, 2013 Awards #1 most tweeted JMIR article 2016; #4 most tweeted JMIR article all time, 2017 Altmetric Top 100 Article 2017 - Altmetric, 2017 Best Paper Award Clinical Natural Language Processing 2016, 2017 Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal Best practices for analyzing large-scale health data from wearables and smartphone apps (2019) NPJ digital medicine, 2(1), pp. 45 Authors: Jennifer L Hicks, Tim Althoff, Peter Kuhar, Bojan Bostjancic, Abby C King, Jure Leskovec, Scott L Delp, others Conference Paper Goal-setting And Achievement In Activity Tracking Apps: A Case Study Of MyFitnessPal (2019) The World Wide Web Conference, pp. 571--582 Authors: Mitchell Gordon, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec Journal Article, Academic Journal The menstrual cycle is a primary contributor to cyclic variation in women's mood, behavior, and vital signs (2019) BioRxiv, pp. 583153 Authors: Emma Pierson, Tim Althoff, Daniel Thomas, Paula Hillard, Jure Leskovec Conference Paper I'll Be Back: On the Multiple Lives of Users of a Mobile Activity Tracking Application (2018) Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web Conference, pp. 1501--1511 Authors: Zhiyuan Lin, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec Conference Paper Modeling individual cyclic variation in human behavior (2018) Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web Conference, pp. 107--116 Authors: Emma Pierson, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec Conference Paper Modeling interdependent and periodic real-world action sequences (2018) Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web Conference, pp. 803--812 Authors: Takeshi Kurashima, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec Journal Article, Academic Journal Psychomotor function measured via online activity predicts motor vehicle fatality risk (2018) NPJ Digital Medicine, 1(1), pp. 20173 Authors: Tim Althoff, Eric Horvitz, Ryen W White Sleep monitoring from implicitly collected computer interactions (2018) Authors: Tim Althoff, Eric J Horvitz, Ryen W White Conference Paper Harnessing the web for population-scale physiological sensing: A case study of sleep and performance (2017) Proceedings of the 26th international conference on World Wide Web, pp. 113--122 Authors: Tim Althoff, Eric Horvitz, Ryen W White, Jamie Zeitzer Conference Paper How gamification affects physical activity: Large-scale analysis of walking challenges in a mobile application (2017) Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on World Wide Web Companion, pp. 455--463 Authors: Ali Shameli, Tim Althoff, Amin Saberi, Jure Leskovec Journal Article, Academic Journal Large-scale physical activity data reveal worldwide activity inequality (2017) Nature, 547(7663), pp. 336 Authors: Tim Althoff, Jennifer L Hicks, Abby C King, Scott L Delp, Jure Leskovec, others Conference Paper Online actions with offline impact: How online social networks influence online and offline user behavior (2017) Proceedings of the tenth ACM international conference on web search and data mining, pp. 537--546 Authors: Tim Althoff, Pranav Jindal, Jure Leskovec Journal Article, Academic Journal Population-scale pervasive health (2017) IEEE pervasive computing, 16(4), pp. 75--79 Author: Tim Althoff Journal Article, Academic Journal Influence of Pokemon Go on physical activity: study and implications (2016) Journal of Medical Internet research, 18(12), pp. e315 Authors: Tim Althoff, Ryen W White, Eric Horvitz Journal Article, Academic Journal Large-scale analysis of counseling conversations: An application of natural language processing to mental health (2016) Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 4(Unknown Issue), pp. 463--476 Authors: Tim Althoff, Kevin Clark, Jure Leskovec Conference Proceeding Donor retention in online crowdfunding communities: A case study of donorschoose. org (2015) Proceedings of the 24th international conference on world wide web, pp. 34--44 Authors: Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec Conference Proceeding TimeMachine: timeline generation for knowledge-base entities (2015) Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 19--28 Authors: Tim Althoff, Xin Luna Dong, Kevin Murphy, Safa Alai, Van Dang, Wei Zhang Conference Proceeding How to ask for a favor: A case study on the success of altruistic requests (2014) Eighth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media Authors: Tim Althoff, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Dan Jurafsky Conference Proceeding Analysis and forecasting of trending topics in online media streams (2013) Proceedings of the 21st ACM international conference on Multimedia, pp. 907--916 Authors: Tim Althoff, Damian Borth, Hees, J\"orn, Andreas Dengel iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
