iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Heather Whiteman Heather Whiteman CV Assistant Teaching Professor iheather@uw.edu 206-543-4222 Mary Gates Hall 330L Specializations Future of Work People Analytics Data Science & Society Research Areas Information and Society Data Science Courses INFO 380 - Information Systems Analysis And Design Biography Assistant teaching professor Heather Whiteman is a people data enthusiast. Heather brings an academic background focused on studying the art, the science, and the impact of measuring people at work. Her masters degree work in industrial organizational psychology centered on the use of data and statistics to identify and mitigate the harm caused by discrimination in the workplace. Heathers Ph.D. in the field of Human Capital Management focused on human performance and capability with an emphasis on identifying measurement techniques less susceptible to societal biases. Heather is an experienced educator, having taught statistics, data analysis, and management previously at universities based in the US, UK, and Guatemala. In addition to her role as assistant teaching professor at the University of Washington Information School, Heather will continue to offer a specialized course on People Analytics as an adjunct at UC Berkeley Haas School of Business.Heather comes with years of applied, strategic leadership in preparing organizations for the future of work, digital talent transformation, and enabling a new future driven by fair data and people analytics insights. Her practitioner experience has spanned roles such as researcher, consultant, manager and executive and has stretched across areas such as equal employment opportunity, talent management, and strategic organizational planning; all with a focus on applying the power of data and analysis to drive outcomes for businesses as well as for individuals.Heather serves as a Future Workplace Executive Fellow, a board and tech advisor to organizations focused on people data for good and has been selected as a Fulbright Scholar to Guatemala for 2022-2023. She also serves as a U.S. representative for the International Organization for Standards (ISO) Technical Advisory Group TC 260 focused on the creation of global standards for human capital measurement, reporting and public disclosure. Most recently having served as a registered expert in the creation of ISO 30415:2021 Diversity and inclusion, which provides the fundamentals for organizations wishing to create an inclusive workplace through actions, principles, measures, and the associated accountabilities and responsibilities. Education Ph D, Human Capital Management, Bellevue University, 2016 MA, Industrial/Organizational Psychology, California State University - Sacramento, 2011 BA, Dual Major in Psychology and Communications, University of California, Davis, 2006 Awards Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award - Guatemala, 2022-2023 Consulting and Other Projects Future Workplace, Executive Fellow, 2019 Publications and Contributions Magazine/Trade Publication 7 Steps to Fairer Data-Informed Decisions (2020) Harvard Business Review Author: Heather J. Whiteman Magazine/Trade Publication 7 Ways HR Can Build a Fairer, Data-Informed Culture (2020) Harvard Business Review Digital Author: Heather J. Whiteman Book, Non-Scholarly-New Explore the Power of People Analytics A Guide for Business and HR Leaders (2020) Authors: Heather J. Whiteman, N. Garbis Journal Article, Academic Journal Dimensions of Response to Novelty are Associated with Aggression and Social Engagement in Adult Male Rhesus Macaques (2008) Journal of Comparative Psychology, 122(2), pp. 195-203 Authors: Heather J. Whiteman, E. L. Kinnally, S. P. Mendoza, J. P. Capitano Journal Article, Academic Journal Dimensions of Response to Novelty are Associated with Aggression and Social Engagement in Adult Male Rhesus Macaques (2005) American Journal of Primatology, 66(Unknown Issue), pp. 73-74 Authors: Heather J. Whiteman, E. L. Kinnally, S. P. Mendoza, G. M. Karare, L. A. Lyons, J. P. Capitano Presentations Build a Fairer, Data-Informed Culture (2021) Harvard Business Review - Virtual Lessons in Solving Business Problems Using People Analytics (2021) Future Workplace - Virtual Using Analytics to Tell a Story and Build a Business Case (2021) People Analytics World - Virtual iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
