iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Hala Annabi Hala Annabi CV Associate Professor, MSIM Program Chair hpannabi@uw.edu 206-685-5585 Mary Gates Hall 370B Affiliate Positions Affiliate Faculty, CREATE Center Affiliate Faculty, The Product Center, UW Foster School of Business Specializations Inclusive Learning Organizations Women in the Technology Industry Individuals with Autism in the Workplace Research Areas Sociotechnical Information Systems Health and Well-Being Courses IMT 580 - Management And Strategic Leadership Biography Dr. Hala Annabi is an Associate Professor in the Information School at the University of Washington. Her research focuses on creating and maintaining inclusive learning organizations. Dr. Annabi investigates diversity and inclusion interventions in the technology industry aimed at retaining and advancing women, as well as recruiting, retaining, and advancing individuals with autism. Dr. Annabi earned a B.S. in Business Administration and Management Information Systems and an MBA from Le Moyne College. She earned a Ph.D. in Information Science and Technology from The Information School at Syracuse University in 2005. Education Ph D, Information Science and Technology, Syracuse University, 2005 MBA, LeMoyne College, 1999 BS, Business Administration, LeMoyne College, 1997 Awards Reviewer of the Year Award - AMCIS, 2018 Dean's Special Recognition Award - The College of Business, Ohio University, 2013 Senior Class Faculty Recognition Award - The College of Business, Ohio University, 2013 Consulting and Other Projects Leadership Training Workshop for the Boeing Company Memberships Academy of Management Association for Information Systems Future Professorate Program at Syracuse University IFIP Working Group 8.2 AIS SIG-Social Inclusion AIS SIG for Education Publications and Contributions Conference Paper How Asian Womens Intersecting Identities Impact Experiences in Introductory Computing Courses (2021) Proceedings of the 2021 iConference Authors: Mina Tari, V. Hua, L. Ng, Hala Annabi Conference Paper A Design Framework for Information Systems in the Workplace Accommodation Process from a Social Model Perspective: A Research Plan (2020) Proceedings of the 26th Americas Conference on Information Systems Authors: S. Cao, E. Loiacono, Hala Annabi Journal Article, Academic Journal A Theoretical Framework for Information Systems in the Workplace Accommodation Process: A Critical Disability Lens (2020) Journal of the AIS: Special Issue on Social Inclusion Authors: Hala Annabi, S. Cao, E. Loiacono Conference Paper Experiences of Asian and Pacific Islander Women in Introductory Computing Courses (2020) RESPECT 2020: 5th Annual Conference For Research On Equity & Sustained Participation In Computing, Engineering, & Technology, March 2020 Authors: Mina Tari, L. Ng, V. Hua, Hala Annabi Conference Paper The Dark Side of Software Development: Job Stress Amongst Software Developers with Autism (2020) Proceedings of the 53st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Authors: T. Holmes, Hala Annabi Conference Paper What Women Really Think of Women Affinity Groups in Tech (2020) Proceedings of the 26th Americas Conference on Information Systems Authors: S. Bhatia, Mina Tari, Hala Annabi Conference Paper A Critical Analysis on the Effects of Negative IS Stereotypes on Underserved Populations (2019) Proceedings of the 25th Americas Conference on Information Systems Authors: Mina Tari, Hala Annabi, Yvette Iribe Ramirez, Erin Beneteau, Stephanie Ballard Journal Article, Academic Journal A Theoretical Framework for Investigating the Context for Creating Employment Success in Information Technology for Individuals with Autism (2019) Journal of Management and Organization, Special Issue on Neurodiversity and Employment, pp. 1-17 Authors: Hala Annabi, J. Locke Report Autism @ Work Playbook: Finding talent and creating meaningful employment opportunities for people with autism (2019) Authors: Hala Annabi, E. W. Crooks, N. Barnett, J. Guadagno, J. R. Mahoney, J. Michelle, A. Pacilio, H. Shukla, J. Velasco Journal Article, Academic Journal MISunderstood: A Longitudinal Analysis of Major MISperceptions (2019) Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 44(Unknown Issue), pp. 537-571 Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann Conference Paper Are Women Affinity Groups Enough to Solve the Retention Problem of Women in the IT Workforce? (2018) Proceedings of the 51th Hawaii International Conference on System Science Authors: Hala Annabi, Mina Tari Journal Article, Academic Journal Improving the Retention of Women in the IT Workforce: An Investigation of Gender Diversity Interventions (2018) Information Systems Journal, pp. 1-33 Authors: Hala Annabi, Sarah Lebovitz Conference Paper Undergraduate Teaching Assistants Concerns in Creating Inclusive Technology Courses (2018) RESPECT 2018: 3rd Annual Conference For Research On Equity & Sustained Participation In Computing Engineering, & Technology Authors: Mina Tari, Hala Annabi, Amy J. Ko Conference Paper Where Affinity Meets Practice: Emerging Communities of Practice to Meet the Needs of Korean IT Professionals (2018) Proceedings of the 51th Hawaii International Conference on System Science Authors: Ada Kim, Hala Annabi Conference Paper Its Not Just About Attention to Details (2017) Proceedings of the 50th Hawaii International Conference on System Science Authors: Hala Annabi, Karthika Sundaresan, Annuska Zolyomi Conference Paper Understanding How Effective Are Diversity Interventions At Addressing the Barriers Women Face in the IT Workplace? A Theoretical Model (2016) Proceedings of the 22nd Americas Conference on Information Systems Authors: Hala Annabi, Sarah Pels Conference Paper MIS-Understood: A Longitudinal Analysis of MIS Major Misperceptions (2015) AIS-SIGED: IAIM Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann Journal Article, Academic Journal Social Media as the Missing Link: Connecting Communities of Practice to Business Strategy (2013) Journal of Organizational Computing and Electronic Commerce, 23(1) Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann Conference Paper Guidelines to Align Communities of Practice with Business Objectives: An Application of Social Media (2012) Proceedings of the 45th Hawaii International Conference on System Science, ISBN/ISSN: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/HICSS.2012.297 Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann, Sarah Pels, Paul Arnold, Christopher Rivinus Conference Paper Depicting What Really Matters: Using Episodes to Study Latent Phenomenon (2008) ICIS 2008 Proceedings Authors: Hala Annabi, Kevin Crowston, Robert Heckman Journal Article, Academic Journal Examining the Effectiveness of Virtual Communities Of Practice: A Research Framework (2008) Issues in Information Systems, 9(2) Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann Journal Article, Academic Journal Preparing the Knowledge Worker: How Can IS Programs Meet the Challenge? (2008) Issues in Information Systems, 9(1) Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann Conference Paper Learning Triggers in Virtual Groups: The Case of the Apache Web Server (2007) Proceedings of the International Federation of Information Processing Working Groups 8.2 on Information Systems and Organizations and 9.5 on Virtuality and Society, 236(Unknown Issue), ISBN/ISSN: 978-0-387-73025-7 Author: Hala Annabi Journal Article, Academic Journal Open Source Software Development: The New Training Ground? (2007) Issues in Information Systems, 8(2) Authors: Hala Annabi, Sean McGann Presentations Autism at Work (2020) Disability Month Keynote broadcasted to State Farm Insurance employees nationwide - Virtual Balancing Rigor and Relevance When Investigating Social Inclusion in a Digital World Panel (2020) JAIS Post-ICIS Workshop - India Organizational Factors Enabling the Scaling of Autism at Work Initiatives (2020) Stanford Neurodiversity Summit, Stanford University - Stanford, CA Why DEI Efforts Fail? (2020) The iAffiliates Quarterly Meeting, The Information School, The University of Washington - Seattle, WA Why DEI Efforts Fail? (2020) The Information School Alumni Board, The University of Washington. - Seattle, WA Autism at Work Panel (2019) Seattle 4 Rotary Club Monthly Meeting - Seattle, Washinton Autism in the Workplace: Creating and Scaling Autism Hiring Initiatives (2019) Institute on Disability and Public Policy, American University - Washington, D.C. Autism Ready Libraries: Improving inclusion in public libraries (2019) American Library Association Annual Conference - Washington D.C. Autism-Ready Workplace: Creating and Scaling Autism Hiring Initiatives (2019) US Department of Health and Human Services Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee Meeting - Bethesda, Maryland Autism-Ready Workplace: Creating and Scaling Autism Hiring Initiatives (2019) Second Annual Spring Autism at Work Summit - Seattle, Washington Diversity and Inclusion Research Grand Challenges Research Panel (2019) AIS Womens Network Annual Luncheon - Munich, Germany Explore the Potential of Enterprise Systems to Facilitate the Workplace Accommodation Process: A Multidisciplinary Model (2019) Fifth Annual Post-ICIS SIG- Social Inclusion Workshop - Munich, Germany Report from The Autism Research Frontier (2019) Fourth Annual Spring Autism at Work Summit - Seattle, Washington The Future of Work: Is AI a Friend or Foe? (2019) Deloitte Team Tech Challenge Keynote - Seattle, Washington The Impact and Value of Enterprise Neurodiversity Employment Programs (2019) Autism at Work Summit East Executive Session - Palm Beach, Florida Autism Employment in IT: A Research Agenda, TREO Talks (2018) International Conference for Information Systems - San Francisco, California Job Stress Amongst Software Developers with Autism: A Theoretical Framework (2018) Fourth Annual Post-ICIS SIG Social Inclusion Workshop - San Francisco, California Someone On My Level: How Women of Color Describe the Role of Teaching Assistants in Creating Inclusive Technology Courses (2018) Fourth Annual Post-ICIS SIG Social Inclusion Workshop - San Francisco, California iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
