iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Kolina Koltai Kolina Koltai CV Postdoctoral Scholar koltai@uw.edu Gerberding Hall 054 Specializations Scientific dissent decision making Digital communities Social networking sites Research Area Sociotechnical Information Systems Biography Kolina Koltai is a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Center for an Informed Public (CIP) at the University of Washington. She studies how groups use of sociotechnical systems affects decision making and information behavior. She researches information-seeking behaviors, trust assessment of information (and misinformation), and decision making with a focus on when people dissent from the scientific mainstream (e.g., vaccine dissent). She specifically focuses on how social networking sites and digital communities interact with information behavior practices. Koltai received her Ph.D. in Information Studies from the School of Information at The University of Texas at Austin. She has previously worked in HCI and user experience researcher positions in government and industry labs. Education Ph D, Information Studies, The University of Texas , 2020 BA, Psychology & Asian American Studies, California State University, 2012 Awards Graduate Student Poster Award (Runner up) - St. Davids CHPR Conference, 2018 Best Article of the Year in Ergonomics in Design, 2017 Publications and Contributions Blog post Mark of the Beast meets Vaccine Passports (2021) Virality Project Authors: Kolina Koltai, Joey Schafer Blog post The Vaccine Passport Narrative in Vaccine Hesitant Communities (2021) Authors: Rachel Moran, Kolina Koltai, Joseph Schafer, Erin McAweeney, Nicole Buckley, Divya Suresh Kumar, Connor Klentschy Blog post Vaccine shedding narratives targeted toward women (2021) Virality Project Authors: Kolina Koltai, Rachel Moran, Nicole Buckley, Divya Suresh Kumar, Connor Klentschy, Kyle Weiss, Erin McAweeney, Emma Dolan, Jennifer John, Ashwin Ramaswami, Carly Miller Article Emerging Narratives Around Mail Dumping and Election Integrity (2020) Election Integrity Partnership Authors: Ian Kennedy, Andrew Beers, Kolina Koltai, Morgan Wack, Joey Schafer, Paul Lockaby, Michael Caufield, Michael Grass, Emma Spiro, Kate Starbird, Isabella Garcia-Camargo Article Foreign vs Domestic: An Examination of Amplification in a Ballot Misinformation Story (2020) Election Integrity Partnership Authors: Joseph Bak-Coleman, Michael Caulfield, Kolina Koltai, Rachel Moran, Kate Starbird, Tom Wilson, Ian Wisemore, Rene Diresta Journal Article, Academic Journal How to be a good digital citizen during the election and its aftermath (2020) The Conversation Author: Kolina Koltai Article Left-Leaning Influencers, 'Mainstream' Media Play Big Role in Amplifying 'Army for Trump' Fears (2020) Election Integrity Partnership Authors: Rachel Moran, Joseph Bak-Coleman, Tom Wilson, Ian Kennedy, Kolina Koltai, Andrew Beers, Ian Wisemore, Emma Spiro, Michael Caufield, Kate Starbird Conference Paper Vaccine information seeking and sharing: How private Facebook Groups contributed to the anti-vaccine movement online (2020) Selected Papers of #AoIR2020: The 21st Annual Conference of the Association of Internet Researchers Author: Kolina Koltai Article Friend of a Friend Stories as a Vehicle for Misinformation (2020) Election Integrity Partnership Authors: Kolina Koltai, Jack Nassetta, Kate Starbird, Caryl Miller, Dylan Junkin, Kevin Lai, Malika Mehrotra Conference Paper Understanding Online Trust and Information Behavior Using Demographics and Human Values (2019) Understanding Online Trust and Information Behavior Using Demographics and Human Values, Information in Contemporary Society: iConference 2019 Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp. 654-665 Authors: N. Verma, K. R. Fleischmann, Kolina Koltai Journal Article, Academic Journal Applying Social Network Analysis to Help Identify the Social Support Needs of Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Patients and Survivors (2018) Journal of Adolescent and Young Adult Oncology, 7(Unknown Issue), pp. 181-186 Authors: Kolina Koltai, C. Walsh, B. Jones, B. Berkelaar Conference Paper Demographic Factors and Trust in Different News Sources (2018) Proceedings of the 81st Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology, pp. 524-533 Authors: N. Verma, K. R. Fleischmann, Kolina Koltai Journal Article, Academic Journal End-of-Life Decision Making by Family Caregivers of Persons with Advanced Dementia: A Literature Review of Decision Aids (2018) SAGE Open Medicine, 6(Unknown Issue), pp. 1-9 Authors: B. Xie, A. Berkley , J. Kwak, K.R. Fleischmann, J. Champion, Kolina Koltai Journal Article, Academic Journal Race Signaling Features: Identifying Markers of Racial Prototypicality among Asians, Blacks, Latinos, and Whites (2018) Social Cognition, 36(Unknown Issue), pp. 603-625 Authors: D. Ma, Kolina Koltai, R. McManus, A. Bernhardt, J. Correll, B. Wittenbrink Conference Paper Humans Values and Trust in Scientific Journals, Mainstream News, and Fake News (2017) Proceedings of the 80th Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology, pp. 426-435 Authors: N. Verma, K. R. Fleischmann, Kolina Koltai Conference Paper Questioning Science with Science: The Evolution of the Vaccine Safety Movement (2017) Proceedings of the 80th Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology Authors: Kolina Koltai, K. R. Fleischmann Journal Article, Academic Journal A Trust-Based Analysis of an Air Force Collision Avoidance System: Test Pilots (2016) Ergonomics in Design: The Quarterly of Human Factors Applications, 24(1), pp. 9-12 Authors: J.B. Lyons, Nhut Ho, Kolina Koltai, G. Masequesmay, M. Skoog, A. Cacanindin, W. Johnson Journal Article, Academic Journal Engineering Trust in Complex Automated Systems (2016) Ergonomics in Design: The Quarterly of Human Factors Applications, 24(1), pp. 13-17 Authors: J. Lyons, Kolina Koltai, N. Ho, W. Johnson, D. Smith, J. Shively Conference Paper Shaping trust through transparent design: Theoretical and experimental guidelines (2016) Advances in Human Factors in Robots and Unmanned Systems, Proceedings of the AHFE 2016 International Conference on Human Factors in Robots and Unmanned Systems, pp. 127-136 Authors: J. Lyons, G. Sadler, Kolina Koltai, H. Battiste, N. Ho, L. Hoffmann, D. Smith, W. Johnson, R. Shively Conference Paper Evaluation of a recommender system for single pilot operations (2015) rocedia Manufacturing: Vol. 3. 6th International Conference on Applied Human Factors and Ergonomics (AHFE 2015) and the Affiliated Conferences, pp. 3070-3077 Authors: Q. Dao, Kolina Koltai, S. Cals, S. Brandt, J. Lachter, M. Matessa, D. Smith, V. Battiste, W. Johnson Technical Report Trust-based analysis of an Air Force Collision Avoidance System (AFRL-RH-WP-TP-2015-0030) (2015) Authors: J. B. Lyons, N. T. Ho, G. Masequesmay, Kolina Koltai, W. W. Johnson , M. Skoog, A. Cacanindin Conference Paper An Extended Case Study Methodology for Investigating Influence of Cultural, Organizational, and Automation Factors on Human-Automation Trust (2014) CHI 14 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Association of Computing Machinery Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), pp. 885-888 Authors: Kolina Koltai, N. Ho, G. Masequesmay, D. Niedober, M. Skoog, W. Johnson , A. Cacanindin, J. Lyons Technical Report An experimental study of the effect of transparency on pilot trust in the emergency landing planner (2014) Authors: N. Ho , Kolina Koltai, W. W. Johnson Conference Paper Influence of Cultural, Organizational, and Automation Capability Factors on Human- Automation Trust: A Case Study of Auto-GCAS Engineers and Developmental History (2014) Human-Computer Interaction: Application and Services: Vol. 8512. 16th International Conference on Human Computer Interaction, pp. 473-484 Authors: D. Niedober, N. Ho, Kolina Koltai, G. Masequesmay, M. Skoog, A. Cacanindin, W. Johnson , J. Lyons Conference Paper Influence of Cultural, Organizational, and Automation Capability on Human Automation Trust: A Case Study of Auto-GCAS Experimental Test Pilots. (2014) International Conference on Human Computer Interaction in Aerospace, pp. 1-10 Authors: Kolina Koltai, N. Ho, G. Msequesmay, D. Niedober, M. Skoog, A. Cacanindin, W. Johnson , J. Lyons Presentations Briefing for senior staff of the U.S. House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis (2021) United States House of Representatives - Virtual Season 2, episode 28: The rabbit hole (2021) Shelter in Place Podcast - Virtual Short Talks - Difficult Audiences (2021) Science Talk 2021 - Virtual Working with the Anti-vaccine community (2021) Science Talk - Portland, OR Vaccine Information Seeking and Sharing: How Private Facebook Groups Contributed to the Anti-Vaccine Movement (2020) 2020 annual meeting of the Conference on Computer-Supported Work and the Association of Internet Researchers - Virtual Anti-vax or vaccine safety advocate: Value systems of vaccine dissent (2019) 3rd Annual Graduate Research Showcase - Austin, TX Ethical Concerns for the Future of Face Recognition Technology and Policy (2019) Good Systems: Ethical AL for CSCW Workshop, 22nd ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing - Austin, TX Human Values and Scientific Controversies: Studying Vaccine Attitudes on Social Networking Sites (2019) Oxford Internet Institute (OII) Summer Doctoral Programme - Oxford, England Online Health Communities and AI: Promise and Concerns (2019) Good Systems: Ethical AL for CSCW Workshop, 22nd ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Social Computing - Austin, TX The Vaccine-Opposed Movement Online: Representation of Alternative Scientific Beliefs (2019) Social Science Research Councils Race, Gender, and Toxicity Online Research Workshop - Austin, TX Human values and end-of-life decision making: Results from a pilot study of dementia caregivers (2018) 82nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology - Vancouver, Canada Questioning Science with Science: The Evolution of the Vaccine Safety Movement (2018) St. Davids CHPR Conference - Austin, TX Understanding the Information Experience of Fake News (2018) SIG-USE Research Symposium on the Social Informatics of Knowledge, Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology - Vancouver, Canada Entitled to your own facts: The social informatics of knowledge in the era of fake news (2017) SIG-SI Research Symposium on the Social Informatics of Knowledge, Annual Meeting of the Association for Information Science and Technology - Crystal City, VA An Ethnographic-Based Model for Trust Development in Auto-GCAS. (2015) American Psychological Association Annual Convention - Toronto, Canada Transparency in an Automated Recommender System for Emergency Landings. (2015) American Psychological Association Annual Convention - Toronto, Canada The Relationship Between Sexism and Objectification of Sexualized Male and Female Targets (2014) 15th Annual Convention of the Society of Personality and Social Psychology - Austin, TX iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
