iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship & research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects Research Events Guest lectures and our Research Fair showcase News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Michelle Carter Michelle Carter CV Affiliate Associate Professor mscarter3@cba.ua.edu Specializations Information Technology Identity Management of Information Systems Technology and Social Change Biography Dr. Michelle Carter is an associate professor of Management Information Systems in the Culverhouse College of Business, University of Alabama. Michelles work has appeared in MIS Quarterly, ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems, the European Journal of Information Systems, the Journal of Information Technology, Information & Management, Communications of the AIS, and MISQ Executive, as well as several conference proceedings and book chapters. Her current research investigates the involvement of IT in identity, humanness, and social change in an increasingly digital world. Michelle is the immediate Past-President of the AIS Special Interest Group on Social Inclusion and chairs the AIS committee on Diversity & Inclusion. In 2016, Michelle was recognized for her research and service contributions to the information systems field as a recipient of the AIS Early Career Award. Education Ph D, Management (Information Systems), Clemson University, 2012 MS, Information Systems Management, J. Mack Robinson College of Business , Georgia State University, 2008 MS, Computer Science with Distinction, Anglia Polytechnic University, 2003 BA, English with Honors, Anglia Polytechnic University, 2000 Memberships AIS Special Interest Group on Social Inclusion (SIG-SI) Association of Information Systems (AIS) AIS Special Interest Group on Adoption and Diffusion of Information Technology (SIGADIT) AIS Womens Network Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal Fostering Virtuous Adaptation to Trends in Information Systems Research: A Riposte (2019) Journal of Information Technology, 34(2), pp. 193-195 Authors: Varun Grover, Michelle S Carter, Dan Jiang Conference Paper The I in Team: IT Identity and Project Behavior (2019) Proceedings of the 25th Americas Conference on Information Systems, pp. 5 Authors: Marc Schmalz, Michelle S Carter, Jin Ha Lee Journal Article, Academic Journal Trends in the Conduct of IS Research (2019) Journal of Information Technology, 34(2), pp. 160-177 Authors: Varun Grover, Michelle S Carter, Dan Jiang Journal Article, Academic Journal Its Not You, its Me: Identity, Self-Verification, and Amazon Reviews (2018) The Data Base for Advances in Information Systems | ACM SIGMIS, 49(2), pp. 79-92 Authors: Marc Schmalz, Michelle S Carter, Jin Ha Lee Conference Paper Facebook's "Free Basics" and Implications for Development: IT Identity and Social Capital (2017) Proceedings of the 50th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, pp. 2590-2599 Authors: Moonjung Yim, Ricardo Gomez, Michelle S Carter Journal Article, Academic Journal In a League of Their Own: Exploring the Impact of Shared Work History on Distributed Online Project Teams (2017) Project Management Journal, 48(1), pp. 65-80 Authors: Stacie Petter, Michelle S Carter Conference Paper The Content and Context of Identity in a Digital Society (2017) Authors: Michelle S Carter, Deborah Compeau, Michael Kennedy, Marc Schmalz Conference Paper Applying User Engagement Models from Direct-to-Patient Online Services to Improve Patient Portal Design (2016) iConference 2016 Proceedings Authors: Jordan Eschler, Marc Schmalz, Michelle S Carter Journal Article, Academic Journal Facebooks Free Basics: For or against community development? (2016) Journal of Community Informatics, 12(2) Authors: Moonjung Yim, Ricardo Gomez, Michelle S Carter Conference Paper Leveraging Consumer Technologies: Exploring Determinants of Smartphone Use Behaviors in the Workplace (2015) 48th Hawaii International Conference on Systems Sciences Authors: Michelle S Carter, Stacie Petter Journal Article, Academic Journal Me, My Self and I(T): Conceptualizing Information Technology (IT) Identity and its Implications (2015) MIS Quarterly, 39(4), pp. 931-957 Authors: Michelle S Carter, Varun Grover Journal Article, Academic Journal The FIRST+ Year Information Systems Faculty Experience (2015) Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 36(Unknown Issue), pp. 643-654 Authors: Eric Larson, Matthew L Nelson, Michelle S Carter Conference Workshop Paper In a League of Their Own: Examining the Impact of Prior Work History in Software Projects (2014) 9th International Research Workshop on IT Project Management (IRWITPM 2014) Authors: Stacie Petter, Michelle S Carter Journal Article, Academic Journal Understanding Online Customers Ties to Merchants: The Moderating Influence of Trust on the Relationship between Switching Costs and E - Loyalty (2014) European Journal of Information Systems, 23(2), pp. 185-204 Authors: Michelle S Carter, R. Wright, J. B. Thatcher, K. Klein Journal Article, Professional Journal A Classification and Investigation of Trustees in B - to - C E - Commerce: General vs. Specific Trust (2013) Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 32(4) Authors: J. B. Thatcher, Michelle S Carter, X. Li, G. Rong Conference Paper IT Identity: Developing a Set of Constructs and Measures (2013) International Conference on Information Systems 2013 Author: Michelle S Carter Conference Paper Social Activism: Methodological Justification, Evidence, and Theory (2013) 2013 Digital Societies and Social Technologies Summer Institute Authors: M Germonprez, D Hovorka, Michelle S Carter Journal Article, Academic Journal An Examination of the Role of Army Medical Chief Information Officer (2012) Military Medicine, 177(7) Authors: M. Mellot, J. B. Thatcher, N. Roberts, Michelle S Carter Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Mobile Devices and the Self: Developing the Concept of Mobile Phone Identity (2012) Strategy, Adoption and Competitive Advantage of Mobile Services in the Global Economy Authors: Michelle S Carter, V. Grover, J. B. Thatcher Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Swift Trust in Web Vendors: The Role of Appearance and Functionality (2011) Organizational and End-User Interactions: New Explorations Authors: X. Li, G. Rong, Michelle S Carter, J. B. Thatcher Journal Article, Professional Journal The Emerging CIO Role of Business Technology Strategist (2011) MIS Quarterly Executive, 10(1), pp. 19-29 Authors: Michelle S Carter, V. Grover, J. B. Thatcher Journal Article, Academic Journal Trust in a Specific Technology: An Investigation of its Components and Measures (2011) ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems, 2(2) Authors: D. H. McKnight, Michelle S Carter, J. B. Thatcher, P. Clay iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines IT / Help Desk Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2021 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards Research Events News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs The School About Us Diversity Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook on the web Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
