Emeritus - School of Engineering - Santa Clara University Skip to main content Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Visitors Offices & Services Schools & Centers Santa Clara University Homepage Santa Clara University School of Engineering Search menu Search Home About SCU Academics Admission Athletics Campus Life Giving Global News & Events Students Faculty Families Alumni Visitors Offices & Services Schools & Centers Department ofMechanical Engineering Departments AIMES Program Anthropology Art and Art History Asian Studies Program Biology Catholic Studies Program Chemistry and Biochemistry Child Studies Program Classics Communication Economics English Environmental Studies and Sciences Ethnic Studies History Individual Studies Latin American Studies Program Mathematics and Computer Science Medieval and Renaissance Studies Program Military Science Modern Languages and Literatures Music Musical Theatre Neuroscience Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Public Health Program Religious Studies Sociology Sustainability Program Theatre and Dance Urban Education Program Women's and Gender Studies Aerospace Engineering Applied Mathematics Bioengineering Civil, Environmental, and Sustainable Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Management & Leadership Mechanical Engineering Power Systems and Sustainable Energy Robotics and Automation Accounting Accounting & Information Systems Economics Finance Information Systems and Analytics (ISA) Management & Entrepreneurship Marketing Emeritus HomeSchool of EngineeringAcademic ProgramsDepartment of Mechanical EngineeringFaculty and StaffEmeritus Emeritus Faculty Terry Shoup Terry Shoup was appointed the fourth Dean of the School of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Santa Clara University in 1989. He served three consecutive terms as dean, 1989-2002. Before arriving at Santa Clara, he had served on the faculties of Rutgers University, the University of Houston, Texas A&M University, and as Dean of Engineering at Florida Atlantic University. He received his Bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D. degrees in mechanical engineering from Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Pastoral Ministries from Santa Clara University. Following his tenure as SCU dean, Dr. Shoup returned to the faculty to continue his teaching and research in the field of machine design and design optimization methods. He also filled a variety of interim administrative roles at Santa Clara University: Acting Dean of the School of Education, Counseling Psychology and Pastoral Ministries 2005-06, Interim Vice Provost for Enrollment Management 2006-08, and Interim Executive Director of International Programs 2009-10. In addition to his service at Santa Clara, Dr. Shoup contributed to his profession in many ways. In 2006, Dr. Shoup became the 125th President of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, delivering an address in the Peoples Great Hall in China, and testifying before a committee of the U.S. Congress on the important role that engineers play in protecting and preserving the environment. He later was elected as President of the Board of Directors of the ASME Foundation. He is the author or co-author of more than 15 textbooks and more than 140 technical articles, and he also served as the editor-in-chief of the foremost international mechanism design journal,Mechanism& Machine Theory, for more than 25 years. Among numerous other honors and accolades, Dr. Shoup was named ASME Fellow and received the ASME Centennial Award and ASME Honorary Membership, recognizing a lifetime of service to engineering. He was inducted into the Silicon Valley Engineering Hall of Fame in 2011 and received the Presidents Special Recognition Award from Santa Clara University in 2012. Dr. Shoup retired from Santa Clara University in 2019. Timothy K. Hight After 37 years of long and committed service to the Department of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering, and Santa Clara University, Dr. Hight retired in June 2021.Dr. Hight has an outstanding record of success as a teacher, scholar, and leader at Santa Clara. Dr. Hights expertise is in the applications of computer methods to the design and analysis of mechanical systems. He applied the finite element method to a wide variety of problems, including the study of biomechanics and the application of modern design and manufacturing methods in industry. Throughout his academic career he also maintained close ties to industry through numerous summer and part time consulting projects with such companies as IBM, FMC and Lockheed. Dr. Hight also participated in research projects with NASA/Ames, VA hospital in Palo Alto, the USAF at Wright Patterson AFB and Curtin University in Perth, Australia. He also played active roles in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), particularly with the Design Theory and Methodology Committee where he held various positions since the committee's inception.Dr. Hight was the core of the design curriculum and the senior design program in the Department. He developed the senior design sequence to provide students with hands-on experience of designing and building real-life engineering projects. One of the greatest impacts of Tim Hight on the Department was his supervision, along with Fr. JimReites, of the three Solar Decathlon entries in 2007, 2009, 2013 and his supervision of the Tiny House entry in 2016. In particular, SCU placed third overall in 2007 and 2009 with several firsts in various subcategories in 2009. In the 2016 Tiny House competition, SCU secured first place. In the solar house competition, core teams consisted of 25 students with extended teams of over 100 students and typical project costs of $1.2M. In recognition of his achievements and dedication, Dr. Hight was named a top teaching scholar in 2011 for his profound influence in incorporating concepts of sustainability into the Department of Mechanical Engineering. In addition, Dr. Hight served as the department chair for 13 years from 1998 to 2011. His leadership played a key role in shaping and growing the Mechanical Engineering Department. His dedicated mentorship had far-reaching impacts on the professional and academic careers of both students and faculty. Department of Mechanical Engineering Sections Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Mechanical EngineeringAbout UsUndergraduateGraduateFaculty and Staff Faculty by Research Area Emeritus Faculty & Staff Directory LaboratoriesResearchIndustry Advisory Board Contact Us Chair:Hohyun Lee Administrative Assistant:Peta Henderson Mechanical EngineeringSanta Clara University500 El Camino RealSanta Clara, CA 95053 Discovery and Innovation, Bldg. 402 408-554-4937 School of Engineering 500 El Camino RealSanta Clara, CA 95053(408) 554-4000 Maps & Directions Contact Us SCU on Facebook SCU on Instagram SCU on Twitter SCU on Linkedin RESOURCES Emergency Info Careers Login Accessiblity iconAccessibility Title IX OUR SCHOOL Our Mission Event Calendar News Santa Clara University 2021 AccessibilityLogin|SCU on FacebookSCU on Twitter
