Julie M. Schoenung Research Group Department of Materials Science and Engineering University of California, Irvine Log InSearch Skip to content Julie M. Schoenung Research Group Department of Materials Science and Engineering University of California, Irvine Search Toggle search interface Menu Toggle extended navigation Home News Research Engineering Challenging Materials Magnesium Alloys High Entropy Oxides Additive Manufacturing Powder Processing Directed Energy Deposition (LENS) Non-Conventional AM Materials Green Engineering People Principal Investigator Research Scientists Post Doctoral Researchers Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Visiting Scholars Group Alumni Publications Gallery Links Contact Publications Test Directed by Professor Julie M. Schoenung, the JMS Research Group is located at the University of California, Irvine, located between the cities of Irvine and Newport Beach in Orange County. We are approximately 45 minutes south of Los Angeles and 15 minutes inland from the Pacific Ocean. Engineering Tower, UCI The JMS Research Group synthesizes, characterizes and models new materials to meet the increasing demands of ballistic, transportation, and energy applications. The group is also involved in a Green Engineering initiative, investigating the impacts of materials transactions on human health and environmental quality. Current research focuses on deformation mechanisms of magnesium alloys, investigation of laser engineered net shaping (LENS) fabrication methods, LENS fabrication of battery materials, processing and properties of high entropy oxide (HEO) ceramics, and investigation of sustainability in materials manufacturing processes Dr. Julie M. SchoenungTHE JMS RESEARCH GROUPThe logo of the JMS research group, highlighting the three most important focuses of a Materials Engineering program surrounded by the imperative to improve sustainabilityADMINISTRATION Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS Faculty Websites Return to top of page Powered by WordPress|Theme created byCampusPress. close menu Home News Research Engineering Challenging Materials Magnesium Alloys High Entropy Oxides Additive Manufacturing Powder Processing Directed Energy Deposition (LENS) Non-Conventional AM Materials Green Engineering People Principal Investigator Research Scientists Post Doctoral Researchers Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Visiting Scholars Group Alumni Publications Gallery Links Contact Publications Test close search Search Search Site
