Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Council and Faculty DEI Committee - MIT Department of Biology Skip to content Menu Search for: Search Support Biology Diversity Events Log In Get Help Contact Us About Diversity DEI Council and DEI Faculty Committee Biology Diversity Community Honors and Awards Employment Opportunities Support Biology Contact Us Directory Faculty Staff Get Help Faculty and Research Faculty Areas of Research Biochemistry, Biophysics, and Structural Biology Cancer Biology Cell Biology Computational Biology Genetics Human Disease Immunology Microbiology Neurobiology Stem Cell and Developmental Biology Locations Core Facilities Video Gallery Faculty Resources Undergraduate Why Biology Undergraduate Testimonials Major/Minor Requirements General Institute Requirement Advanced Standing Exam Transfer Credit Current Students Subject Offerings Research Opportunities Biology Undergraduate Student Association Career Development Tutoring Graduate Why MIT Biology? Diversity in the Graduate Program NIH Training Grant Career Outcomes Graduate Testimonials Prospective Students Application Process Interdisciplinary and Joint Degree Programs Funding Living in Cambridge Current Students Subject Offerings Graduate Manual: Key Program Info Graduate Teaching Career Development Resources Biology Graduate Student Council BioPals Program Postdoctoral Life as a Postdoc Postdoc Associations Postdoc Testimonials Funding Career Development Resources Responsible Conduct of Research Postdoc Resources Outreach Non-MIT Undergraduates Bernard S. and Sophie G. Gould MIT Summer Research Program in Biology (BSG-MSRP-Bio) BSG-MSRP-Bio Gould Fellows Quantitative Methods Workshop High School Students and Teachers Summer Workshop for Teachers MIT Field Trips LEAH Knox Scholars Program Additional Resources MITx Biology News News Feed BioGenesis Podcast Biology Newsletter Internal Department Calendar EHS and Facilities Graduate Manual Resources for MD/PhD Students Preliminary Exam Guidelines Thesis Committee Meetings Guidelines for Graduating Faculty Resources Postdoc Resources About Diversity DEI Council and DEI Faculty Committee Biology Diversity Community Honors and Awards Employment Opportunities Support Biology Contact Us Directory Faculty Staff Get Help Faculty and Research Faculty Areas of Research Biochemistry, Biophysics, and Structural Biology Cancer Biology Cell Biology Computational Biology Genetics Human Disease Immunology Microbiology Neurobiology Stem Cell and Developmental Biology Locations Core Facilities Video Gallery Faculty Resources Undergraduate Why Biology Undergraduate Testimonials Major/Minor Requirements General Institute Requirement Advanced Standing Exam Transfer Credit Current Students Subject Offerings Research Opportunities Biology Undergraduate Student Association Career Development Tutoring Graduate Why MIT Biology? Diversity in the Graduate Program NIH Training Grant Career Outcomes Graduate Testimonials Prospective Students Application Process Interdisciplinary and Joint Degree Programs Funding Living in Cambridge Current Students Subject Offerings Graduate Manual: Key Program Info Graduate Teaching Career Development Resources Biology Graduate Student Council BioPals Program Postdoctoral Life as a Postdoc Postdoc Associations Postdoc Testimonials Funding Career Development Resources Responsible Conduct of Research Postdoc Resources Outreach Non-MIT Undergraduates Bernard S. and Sophie G. Gould MIT Summer Research Program in Biology (BSG-MSRP-Bio) BSG-MSRP-Bio Gould Fellows Quantitative Methods Workshop High School Students and Teachers Summer Workshop for Teachers MIT Field Trips LEAH Knox Scholars Program Additional Resources MITx Biology News News Feed BioGenesis Podcast Biology Newsletter Internal Department Calendar EHS and Facilities Graduate Manual Resources for MD/PhD Students Preliminary Exam Guidelines Thesis Committee Meetings Guidelines for Graduating Faculty Resources Postdoc Resources Support Biology Diversity Events Log In Get Help Contact Us Search for: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Council and Faculty DEI Committee Mission Statement Diversity and inclusion are core values of our department, and we believe that diversity promotes scientific excellence and innovation. The Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Council and Faculty DEI Committee aim to develop, implement, and sustain actions that reflect and foster these values. We aim to support all members of our community, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, national origin, background, or physical ability. We are committed to engaging regularly with all members of our community to get their input, ideas, and suggestions for ways we can make the department a more diverse, welcoming, and supportive environment in which all scientists can thrive and do their best work. We will work to implement needed changes in everything we do, including how we conduct research, teach and train students and postdocs, communicate internally and externally to MIT, and provide service to the community. We will hold ourselves accountable by reporting openly and transparently about our efforts, progress, and plans. DEI Council Representatives of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Council include students, postdocs, staff, and faculty. The goals of this council are to more broadly and comprehensively understand and address the needs of the Department. Council members gather information regarding the needs of community members, discuss and prioritize DEI-related issues, advise other entities in the department (e.g. Department Head, faculty DEI committee, Graduate Committee), and act on its own as appropriate. Council Members Graduate students: Meghann Kasal (building 68, Baker lab); Gayathri Muthukumar(WI, Weissmanlab, co-chair of the DEI council); Kiera Sapp (KI, Vander Heiden lab) Postdocs: Alexandra Pike (Building 68, Belllab); Pedro Pozo (KI, Leeslab) Undergraduates: Isabela Fuentes (KI, Yilmaz lab); Sundeep Chakladar (WI, Lourido lab) Staff: Eva Frederick (WI, Communications); Joshua Stone (Building 68, Education Office); Darcy Gordon (Building 68; Blended and Online Learning ) Faculty: Mike Laub (Building 68); Yukiko Yamashita (WI, co-chair of the DEI council) The DEI Council was established in January 2021. Council Meeting Minutes Minutes are available to the MIT Biology community (Touchstone access required). January 20, 2021 March 11, 2021 April 1, 2021 May 13, 2021 June 10, 2021 July 1, 2021 August 5, 2021 September 10, 2021 Faculty DEI Committee The Faculty DEI Committee was established in July 2020 and focuses on DEI issues of particular relevance to faculty. Committee Members Mike Laub, co-chair Yukiko Yamashita, co-chair Iain Cheeseman Becky Lamason Jackie Lees Sebastian Lourido Matt Vander Heiden Committee Recommendations Changes to the Faculty Search Process The Faculty DEI Committee made a series of recommendations to the Department Head for revising the faculty search process. A consolidated summary of the major recommendations follows: Establish a Biology Faculty Search Oversight Committee to help oversee and advise on best practices throughout a search. Expand efforts to solicit and encourage applications from a broad, diverse set of researchers. Ask candidates to comment in their applications on their commitment to mentoring, inclusivity, diversity, and outreach, in addition to teaching. Include grad student and postdoc representatives on search committees, with a commitment to ensuring diversity of search committees as a whole. Have all search committee members receive training in application review, inlcuding implicit bias. Ensure that all candidates receive the same pre-interview advice and guidance, with appropriate accomodations made on a case-by-case basis, e.g. breaks in interview schedules for pregnant or breastfeeding individuals. Restructure the faculty feedback process to use a more structured and metric-based evaluation form. Request formal feedback from students and postdocs that meet with a candidate. Ensure that feedback on candidates is seen and evaluated by all members of a search committee. Update how candidates are presented to the entire faculty to maximize transparency of the evaluation process. 01/23/2021 Additional Resources MIT Resources: Institute Community and Equity Office MITs Five-Year Strategic Action Plan for DEI Student Support Services Disability and Access Services Greater Boston Area Resources: Cambridge Office of Equity and Inclusion City of Boston Office of Diversity Massachusetts Diversity and Affirmative Action Programs Feedback Have suggestions? Fill out the anonymous feedback form (Touchstone access required). Provide Feedback Our Contacts 77 Massachusetts Ave, 68-132 | Cambridge, MA 02139 | 6172534701 For Emergencies For Emergencies | Accessibility Copyright 2019 MIT Department of Biology | Credits
