Faculty & Staff Openings | Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering | Oregon State University Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Engineering Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search AboutWelcome People News & Events MIME Student Groups Visitors AccreditationIndustrial Engineering Program MIME Mechanical Engineering (ME) Program Manufacturing Engineering Program Energy Systems Engineering Program Life in Corvallis AcademicsUndergraduate ProgramsEnergy Systems Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Engineering Mechanical Engineering Minors Graduate ProgramsIndustrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science Robotics Interdisciplinary Degrees International Learning Opportunities MIME Course Listings Research and InnovationResearch AreasAdvanced Manufacturing Design Industrial and Systems Engineering Next-Generation Materials and Devices Robotics Thermal-Fluid Science Industry Research Collaborations Undergraduate Research Research Highlights FacilitiesResearch LabsAdvanced Technology and Manufacturing Institute Energy Efficiency Center Machining & Product Realization Lab Instructional Labs Our Impact My MIME Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift AboutWelcome People News & Events MIME Student Groups Visitors AccreditationIndustrial Engineering Program MIME Mechanical Engineering (ME) Program Manufacturing Engineering Program Energy Systems Engineering Program Life in Corvallis AcademicsUndergraduate ProgramsEnergy Systems Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Engineering Mechanical Engineering Minors Graduate ProgramsIndustrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science Robotics Interdisciplinary Degrees International Learning Opportunities MIME Course Listings Research and InnovationResearch AreasAdvanced Manufacturing Design Industrial and Systems Engineering Next-Generation Materials and Devices Robotics Thermal-Fluid Science Industry Research Collaborations Undergraduate Research Research Highlights FacilitiesResearch LabsAdvanced Technology and Manufacturing Institute Energy Efficiency Center Machining & Product Realization Lab Instructional Labs Our Impact My MIME You are hereHome Faculty and Staff Join MIME Faculty & Staff Openings Faculty Openings Assistant/Associate/Full Professor:Aerospace EngineeringInstructor:Aerospace Engineering Staff Openings None. About the School of MIME We offer undergraduate degree programs in mechanical, industrial, manufacturing, and energy systems engineering and graduate programs in mechanical and industrial engineering, materials science and robotics. As leaders in the emerging interdisciplinary research areas, our faculty collectively garner more than $19 million annually in research funding, with annual individual expenditures averaging about $360,000. The School of Mechanical, Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering at Oregon State is driven by two overarching and interconnected goals that, taken together, constitute our mission: 1) to educate our students as entrepreneurial, team-oriented, and profession-ready graduates in their chosen disciplines, and 2) to engage in collaborative, cutting-edge research that furthers Oregons prosperity, helps build a sustainable future, and enhances the lives of all members of the global community. About Corvallis, OSU and Oregon Oregon State is an internationalpublic research universitylocated in Corvallis, one of the safest, smartest, greenest small cities in the nation. Founded in 1868, Oregon State is the statesLand Grantuniversity and is one of only two universities in the U.S. to haveSea Grant, Space Grant and Sun Grantdesignations as well. With $441 million in external research funding in 2017, a second consecutive year of record-breaking growth, Oregon State accounts for more research funding than all of the states comprehensive public universities combined. With11 colleges , 15 Agricultural Experiment Stations, 35 countyExtension offices , the Hatfield Marine Science Centerin Newport and OSU-Cascades in Bend, Oregon State has a presence in every one of Oregons 36 counties, a statewide economic footprint of $2.371 billion and an impact that reaches across the state and beyond. Driving directions and map. About Portland Portland, Oregons largest city with 2.3 million people in its greater metro area, is 80 miles north of Corvallis. Portland is an industrial hub, often called the "Silicon Forest," for the concentration of advanced manufacturing, hi-tech, and clean tech industry headquarters. Other large employment sectors in Oregon include apparel & athletic apparel; metals & machining; health, science & wellness; and emerging sectors. Driving directions and map. About Bend and OSUCascades Bend is a beautiful mountain town that boasts 300 plus days of sunshine a year, twenty-two breweries, and countless outdoor activities. In addition, it has robust and growing high technology and biotech industries and was ranked number one in this years Forbes Best Small Places for Business and Careers. Oregon State Universitys branch campus in Bend, OR features outstanding faculty in degree programs that reflect Central Oregons vibrant economy and abundant natural resources. Nearly 20 undergraduate majors, 30 minors and options, and four graduate programs include computer science, energy systems engineering, kinesiology, hospitality management, and tourism and outdoor leadership. The branch campus expanded to a four-year university beginning fall 2015; its new campus opened in fall 2016. Learn more about OSUCascades. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion The School of Mechanical, Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering is a community that includes and values the voices of all people. We see diversity as a strength, a competitive advantage and a moral imperative. We are committed to creating and sustaining a diverse environment that is both equitable and inclusive. We recognize the social barriers that have marginalized and excluded people and communities based on race, ethnicity, gender, sexual identity, socioeconomic background, age, disability, national origin and religion. Within the School of MIME, we have an obligation to prepare our students for a diverse world. They need the capacity to become engaged citizens and engineers in order to contribute to local and international communities. We are committed to the equity of opportunities, and strive to promote and advance diverse communities. We value and proactively seek genuine participation from these historically under-represented and underserved groups, and recognize them as an essential component of creating a welcoming and rich academic, intellectual and cultural environment for everyone. At Oregon State University, we are a community that aspires to be collaborative, inclusive and caring. We strive for equity and equal opportunity in everything we do, and seek to create a welcoming environment that enables success for people from all walks of life. OSU Diversity Resources. Future Students Current Students Alumni and Friends Industry and Partners Faculty and Staff Support MIME Contact Info School of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering 204 Rogers Hall 2000 SW Monroe Avenue Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-6001 Fax: 541-737-2600 info-mime@oregonstate.edu Undergrad Student Services Phone: 541-737-7009 Graduate Student Services Phone: 541-737-3441 mime.gradinfo@oregonstate.edu Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Linkedin Land Acknowledgement Copyright 2021 Oregon State University Disclaimer ABOUT US Overview Accreditation News RESEARCH Overview Research Areas Research Facilities PEOPLE Faculty Research Areas of Research Excellence Faculty & Staff Directory Graduate Students Class Composites Careers INDUSTRY RELATIONS Overview Events Calendar Capstone Design Join Our Mailing List Contact Us STUDENT INFORMATION Undergrad Advising Graduate Advising Undergrad Financial Info Graduate Financial Info MIME Student Groups
