Dr Shweta Singh - School of Agriculture and Food Sciences - University of Queensland Skip to menu Skip to content Skip to footer UQ Home Contacts Study Maps News Events Library Give now my.UQ The University of Queensland School ofAgriculture and Food Sciences School of Agriculture and Food Sciences Site search Search Site search Search Menu Home AboutGlobal focus Alumni Events News StudyUndergraduate programs Honours programs Postgraduate coursework Higher degree by research ResearchResearch impact Collaboration and partnerships Facilities and services Research projects Our peopleHead of School's office Academic Research Professional Technical Adjunct and honorary HDR candidates Student representatives Student supportInternational students External students Honours and postgraduate coursework HDR students Scholarships and prizes Industry placements and work experience Contact Dr Shweta Singh Lecturer Agribusiness School of Agriculture and Food Sciences+61 7 54601 355 shweta.singh@uq.edu.au View researcher profile Researcher biography Embracing change for excellence is the inherent quality of Dr. Shweta Singh. Her outstanding dedication and tireless efforts make training and teaching go beyond the exemplary level of expectation. Her unique array of qualifications has created a portfolio of success in higher education. She has gained experience across multiple industries in the last 20 years of her career to embrace research opportunities in Agribusiness. Her primary research interest lies in identifying and developing sustainable farming practices across the globe. She has a particular interest in evolving and adopting sustainable agriculture practices like vermifiltraion, carbon sequestration, farm waste management to advocate clean and green food to the community. She hails from a farming business and wants to pursue her research aspirations to continually develop agribusiness in developing nations to enhance sustainable development. Her strong pedagogic hold fuels the research and has a capacity to undertake multi-facet research opportunities in Agribusiness. She has been honoured at QLD training Awards where she won the regional teaching Award in 2019 and was State finalist for training awards in 2019. Since then, she has been selected as regional finalist for 2020 and 2021 Awards. Her role also includes continuum of teaching practice-Emerging-Evolving-Embedding-Excelling Publications Books (6) Book Chapters (2) Journal Articles (4) Conference Papers (6) Books Sinha, Rajiv Kumar, Singh, Shweta and Soni, Brijalkumar K. (2017). Cleaner development for safe and sustainable living on earth: policy measures and technological innovations (education for industries and business managers). Hauppauge, NY USA: Nova Science Publishers, Inc.. Sinha, Rajiv K. and Singh, Shweta (2010). Green plants and pollution nature's technology for abating and combating environmental pollution. Hauppauge, NY USA: Nova Science Publishers. Sinha, Rajiv K., Valani, Dalsukh and Sinha, Shweta (2010). Environmental biotechnologies for bioremediation of contaminated lands and soil by microbes, plants and earthworms. Hauppauge, NY USA: Nova Science Publishers. Sinha,Rajiv K and Sinha, Shweta (2001). Ethnobiology: Role of indigenous and ethnic societies in biodiversity conservation, human health protection, and sustainable development. Jaipur, India: Surabhi Publication. Sinha, Rajiv K. and Sinha, Shweta (2000). Desert management and desertification control. Jaipur, India: INA Shree Publishers. Sinha, Rajiv Kumar and Singh, Shweta (1999). People and environment in India: Essays in environmental anthropology. India: Discovery Publications. Book Chapters Sinha, Rajiv K., Sinha, Shanu, Herat, Sunil, Chauhan, Krunal, Valani, Dalsukh and Singh, Kulbaivab (2011). Phytoremediation of polluted air and water: green plants as natural pollutant sink, bioindicators and early warning devices of environmental pollutants and the role of biotechnology. Solid waste management and environmental remediation. (pp. 177-215) edited by Timo Faerber and Johann Herzog. Hauppauge, NY USA: Nova Science Publishers. Sinha, Rajiv K., Valani, Dalsukh, Sinha, Shanu, Singh, Shweta and Herat, Sunil (2011). Bioremediation of contaminated sites: a low-cost natures biotechnology for environmental clean up by versatile microbes, plants and earthworms. Solid waste management and environmental remediation. (pp. 1-72) edited by Timo Faerber and Johann Herzog. Hauppauge, NY USA: Nova Science Publishers. Journal Articles Biala, Johannes, Wilkinson, Kevin, Henry, Beverley, Singh, Shweta, Bennett-Jones, Joshua and De Rosa, Daniele (2021). The potential for enhancing soil carbon levels through the use of organic soil amendments in Queensland, Australia. Regional Environmental Change, 21 (4) 95. doi: 10.1007/s10113-021-01813-y Sinha, Rajiv K., Sinha, Shweta and Ghosh, Ahsok (2005). Phytoremediation: The bioengineering technique for environmental management: A case study of the wonder grass vetiver (Vetiveria zizanioides Linn. (Nash). Indian Journal of Environmental Protection, 25 (11), 970-981. Sinha, Shweta (1999). Renaissance of traditional herbal medicine in India: fulfilling the promise to health for all in the 21st century. Journal of the German Society for Ethnomedicine, 21 (2), 175-186. Singh, Shweta (1999). Conservation and utilisation of biodiversity in the Thar Desert of India. Journal of Human Ecology, 7, 67-76. Conference Papers Shweta, Singh and Niv, Roy (2019). Efficacy of formative assessment to build on existing competencies and enhance experiential learning: proposed exploratory study to build productive human capital. NCVER, Adelaide, SA Australia, 1 July 2019. Adelaide, SA Australia: NCVER. Singh, Shweta (2017). Bio-socio impact of online learning on students-development, implementation and implications. 5th Asia Pacific Conference on Advanced Research, Melbourne, April 2017. Melbourne: APCAR. Singh, Shweta (2016). Unleash the potential of gamification in online courses to meet the need of diverse cohort in VET platform. NCVER, Mackay, QLD Australia, May 2016. Singh, Shweta (2016). Gamification: phenomenography to enhance engagement of adult learners in vocational education. 9th International Conference of Education, Research and Innovation, Seville, Spain, 14-16 November 2016. Singh, Shweta and Irvine, Liz (2015). Blended education-pedagogic innovation in vocational education. International Business and Education Conferences, Hawaii, 5 May 2015. Singh, Shweta (2014). Pedagogic innovation-flexible adult learning model-learn to achieve (student support in education). 7th International Conference of Education, Research and Innovation (ICERI), Seville, Spain, 17-19 November 2014. Valencia, spain: IATED-International Association of Technology Education and Development. The University of Queensland Enquiries: +61 7 3365 1111 | Contact directory ABN: 63 942 912 684 | CRICOS Provider No: 00025B Emergency Phone: 3365 3333 Privacy & Terms of use | Feedback | Updated: 9 Dec 2021 Login
