Mr Suresh Krishnasamy - School of Agriculture and Food Sciences - University of Queensland Skip to menu Skip to content Skip to footer UQ Home Contacts Study Maps News Events Library Give now my.UQ The University of Queensland School ofAgriculture and Food Sciences School of Agriculture and Food Sciences Site search Search Site search Search Menu Home AboutGlobal focus Alumni Events News StudyUndergraduate programs Honours programs Postgraduate coursework Higher degree by research ResearchResearch impact Collaboration and partnerships Facilities and services Research projects Our peopleHead of School's office Academic Research Professional Technical Adjunct and honorary HDR candidates Student representatives Student supportInternational students External students Honours and postgraduate coursework HDR students Scholarships and prizes Industry placements and work experience Contact Mr Suresh Krishnasamy Associate Lecturer School of Agriculture and Food Sciences suresh.krishnasamy@uq.edu.au View researcher profile Researcher biography Suresh is an educator with a passion for the teaching and learning of sciences in higher education (particularly chemistry). His academic pursuits saw him centred in chemistry with both a Master and Bachelor of Science, focusing in analytical and synthetic inorganic chemistry respectively. Armed with a Post-Graduate Diploma in Education (Chemistry and Physics), Suresh is also currently pursuing his PhD in Higher Education at Lancaster University. At UQ, Suresh is an associate lecturer (curriculum and eDesign) with the School of Agriculture and Food Sciences where he plays a key role in supporting the teaching and learning needs of colleagues and students. He also partakes in educational research along with curriculum and program design activities at SAFS. He is particularly interested in the transition of first year students from high school and other avenues into undergraduate education. After teaching GCE A Level chemistry at the college level for three years in Singapore, Suresh spent two years in an eLearning company immersing himself in the business of educational technology. Since then, he has had the opportunity to be employed in two public universities, including Nanyang Technological University, and was fortunate to be at the forefront of both their Technology-enhanced Learning initiatives. In his capacity as a learning designer, he has worked with numerous faculty members from across various disciplines, bringing an expertise in educational technology and teaching and learning, to redesign their courses for better engagement and maximise their employment of online learning. Publications Journal Articles (2) Research Report (1) Journal Articles Lo, Chi Ngai, Abdelkader, Tarek, Choi, Yik Ming, Goff, Anthony James, Suresh, Krishnasamy, Carpio, Guiller Augustin Cea and Soon, Benjamin (2021). Teaching physiotherapy students physical examination skills by using photogrammetry: arandomized control trial of 3- versus 2-dimensional images. Simulation in Healthcare, Publish Ahead of Print. doi: 10.1097/sih.0000000000000576 Gunari, Parag, Krishnasamy, Suresh, Bai, Shi-Qiang and Hor, T. S. Andy (2010). Crystallographic identification of an unusual homoleptic palladium citrate [Na(OH2)(6)]center dot{[Na-3(OH2)(8)](3)[NaPd3(C6H4O7)(3)](2)}center dot(H2O) stabilised by intermetallic aggregation with sodium and heavy hydration. Dalton Transactions, 39 (40), 9462-9464. doi: 10.1039/c0dt00273a Research Report Narayan, Edward, Gaughan, John, McNeill, David, Krishnasamy, Suresh, Tilbrook, Alan and Hoffman, Louw (2021). Researching the sustainable traceability of ruminant livestock production In Vietnam. 2020 ACIAR Launch Workshop. 21-22nd January, 2021. Online Zoom Event. Technical Report for ACIAR. Brisbane, Australia: The University of Queensland. The University of Queensland Enquiries: +61 7 3365 1111 | Contact directory ABN: 63 942 912 684 | CRICOS Provider No: 00025B Emergency Phone: 3365 3333 Privacy & Terms of use | Feedback | Updated: 9 Dec 2021 Login
