Sean (Xiaozheng) He | Faculty at Rensselaer Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search rensselaer polytechnic institute Faculty Directory Academic Schools and Departments Research Centers You are hereHome Sean (Xiaozheng) He Assistant Professor, Civil and Environmental Engineering Sean (Xiaozheng) He joined the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering as an assistant professor in 2017. He worked as a postdoctoral research associate in the NEXTRANS Center, Purdue University. He received his Ph.D. degree from the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities. He also has B.S. and M.S. degrees in computational mathematics from Nanjing University, China. His expertise is in modeling and simulating transportation systems with emphasis on the impacts of the emerging technologies and network disruption. He also works on problems related totransportation systems resilience, connected and autonomous vehicle systems, and electric vehicles. His collaborated research paper on modeling information flow propagation in a vehicle-to-vehicle communication network won the third best paper award at the 18th International IEEE Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems. He serves as a reviewer and guest editor for a number of journals and conferences. Education Ph.D., M.S., University of Minnesota Twin Cities, Transportation M.S., B.S, Nanjing University, Computational Mathematics Research Focus Network modeling and simulationTransportation system resilienceConnected and autonomous vehicle systemsAlternative fuel vehicles Contact Information hex6@rpi.edu http://homepages.rpi.edu/~hex6/ Search for Faculty: or Search by Research Focus: 110 Eighth Street Troy, NY USA 12180 (518) 276-6000 FOLLOW US SCHOOLS & PROGRAMS Architecture Business Engineering Humanities, Arts, & Social Sciences IT & Web Science Science Research RPI CONNECTIONS Admissions Alumni/ae & Friends Athletics Human Resources Library RPInfo Strategic Communications Veterans ENGAGE Apply Now Contact Us Give to Rensselaer Visit Campus Send Feedback Copyright Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) Media Policy | Web Privacy Policy | Student Consumer Information | Title IX Policy | Accessibility
