Caltech Aerospace (GALCIT) | Director Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search options GALCIT Caltech Department of Aerospace (GALCIT) About Overview Mission History & Facts Legends of GALCIT Honors and Awards Positions Available Visit Us Contact People Director Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Graduate Students Alumni Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Student Information Courses Research Research Areas Research Highlights Centers & Initiatives Labs & Facilities Seminars News & Events Lecture Series News Headlines Resources Contact Visit Us Contact Us Get Involved Mory Gharib, Director of GALCIT Mory Gharib is the Hans W. Liepmann Professor of Aeronautics and Bioinspired Engineering specializing in Hydro and aerodynamics, biological flows, bio-inspired systems, and advanced flow visualization techniques. Professor Gharib received his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering from Tehran University, his M.S. in mechanical and aerospace engineering from Syracuse University, and his Ph.D. in aeronautics from Caltech. Dr. Gharib is a Charter Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI), Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAA&S), Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), and a Fellow of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE). Professor Gharib's current research interests in conventional fluid dynamics and aeronautics include Vortex dynamics, active and passive flow control, nano/micro fluid dynamics, bio-Inspired wind and hydro energy harvesting as well as advanced flow- Imaging diagnostics. His Bio-mechanics and medical engineering research activities can be categorized in two areas: Fluid dynamics of physiological machines such as human circulatory system, and aquatic breathing/ propulsion; development of medical devices such as heart valves, cardiovascular health monitoring and drug delivery systems. More information on Dr. Gharib may be found on his website. Past Directors of GALCIT Theodore von Krmn, Professor of Aeronautics, 19301949. First Director of GALCIT, 19301949. Clark Blanchard Millikan, Professor of Aeronautics, 19291966. Second Director of GALCIT, 19491966. Hans Wolfgang Liepmann, Theodore von Krmn Professor of Aeronautics, 19451985, Emeritus. Third Director of GALCIT, 19721985. Anatol Roshko, Theodore von Krmn Professor of Aeronautics, 19551994, Emeritus. Acting Director, Graduate Aeronautical Laboratories, 198587. Hans G. Hornung, C. L. "Kelly" Johnson Professor of Aeronautics, 19872005, Emeritus. Fourth Director of GALCIT, 19872003. Ares J. Rosakis, Theodore von Krmn Professor of Aeronautics and Mechanical Engineering, 1982present. Fifth Director of GALCIT, 20052009. Guruswami Ravichandran, John E. Goode, Jr., Professor of Aerospace and Professor of Mechanical Engineering. Sixth Director of GALCIT, 20092015. People Director Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Graduate Students Alumni Distinguished Alumni Graduate Alumni Contact Us Learn More Research Academics Location & Directions Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Course Descriptions For Our Department Community Portal Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 105-50, Pasadena, CA 91125 2021 Caltech. All rights reserved. Privacy Notice. Feedback? back to top
