Caltech Aerospace (GALCIT) | Paul E. Dimotakis Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search options GALCIT Caltech Department of Aerospace (GALCIT) About Overview Mission History & Facts Legends of GALCIT Honors and Awards Positions Available Visit Us Contact People Director Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Graduate Students Alumni Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Student Information Courses Research Research Areas Research Highlights Centers & Initiatives Labs & Facilities Seminars News & Events Lecture Series News Headlines Resources Contact Visit Us Contact Us Get Involved Faculty Paul E. Dimotakis John K. Northrop Professor of Aeronautics and Professor of Applied Physics Degrees and Appointments B.S., Caltech, 1968; M.S., 1969; Ph.D., 1973. Research Fellow, 1973-74; Research Fellow and Lecturer, 1974-75; Assistant Professor, 1975-81; Associate Professor, 1981-85; Professor, 1986-95; Northrop Professor, 1995-; Jet Propulsion Laboratory Chief Technologist, 2006-11. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Christine Ramirez 267 Guggenheim Lab (626) 395-4750 cramirez@caltech.edu Research Group Website Personal Website Research Overview Professor Dimotakis focuses on experimental and computational research on turbulent mixing and chemical reactions in subsonic and supersonic free-shear flows; hypersonic propulsion; mixing and the geometry of surfaces and interfaces in turbulence; scalar dispersion in turbulent flows; and related areas. Space-Related Research Recent space-related research has been in collaboration with JPL on remote sensing of the atmosphere from space and on the technical feasibility of an asteroid-return mission. Other space-related research has been on high-speed/hypersonic endoatmospheric flight and propulsion, and parachute dynamics for entry, descent, and landing, as well as physics and issues related to a Europa melt-probe to descend to the liquid-water layer. List of Research Areas Fluid physics, dynamics of turbulence, chemically reacting flows, combustion GALCIT News about Paul E. Dimotakis 2017 Caltech Space Challenge Professor Dimotakis Elected to the National Academy of Engineering Professor Dimotakis Receives AIAA Fluid Dynamics Award Read more news about Paul E. Dimotakis Is this your profile? Faculty Joanna Austin H. Jane Bae Robert D. (Bobby) Braun Soon-Jo Chung John O. Dabiri Michael H. Dickinson Paul E. Dimotakis Morteza (Mory) Gharib Beverley J. McKeon Dan Meiron Sergio Pellegrino Dale I. Pullin Guruswami (Ravi) Ravichandran Ares J. Rosakis Joseph E. Shepherd Sandra M. Troian Michael Watkins Learn More Research Academics Location & Directions Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Course Descriptions For Our Department Community Portal Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 105-50, Pasadena, CA 91125 2021 Caltech. All rights reserved. Privacy Notice. Feedback? back to top
