Fall, Mamadou | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research and innovation About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Fall, Mamadou AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Mamadou Fall E-Card Mamadou FallAssociate Chair Undergraduate Studies Ottawa-Carleton Institute for Environmental Engineering (OCIENE) and ProfessorPh.D. (Freiberg, Germany) / PhD (Universit de Freiberg, Allemagne)Dipl. Eng (University of Dakar, Senegal) / Dipl. Ing. (Universit de Dakar, Sngal)Room: CBY A016Office: 613 562-5800 ext. 6558Work E-mail: mfall@uOttawa.cahttps://uniweb.uottawa.ca/members/147 Biography Dr. Fall is currently a Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Ottawa (Canada) and the Director of the Ottawa-Carleton Institute for Environmental Engineering. He graduated from the Earth Science Institute at the University of Dakar with an Award of Excellence for best graduating engineer. He was awarded a PhD excellence scholarship for his PhD studies in geotechnical engineering at the Freiberg University of Mining and Technology (Germany). Subsequently, he was granted a postdoctoral fellowship by the German Research Foundation and coordinated the German Research Chair of Environmental Geosciences and Geotechnics. In 2006, Dr. Fall joined the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Ottawa. He has been leading several major research projects that are related to mine waste management, underground disposal of nuclear wastes, carbon sequestration and engineered landfill technology. Dr. Fall is currently supervising a large research team of postdoctoral researchers and graduate students (PhD and Masters). His team is performing leading edge research in the geotechnical and geoenvironmental fields in close collaboration with the industry, major federal and provincial governmental institutions, and international partners. Over the years, his research projects have received substantial funding from a number of agencies and private companies. Dr. Fall is a member of several societies and has been involved in the organization of numerous workshops, seminars, and national and international conferences. He has been repeatedly invited as keynote speaker or lecturer, and regularly acts as a reviewer for scientific committees, peer review journals, and funding agencies. Fields of Interest Geotechnical Engineering MineFill Technology/Mine Waste Management Underground Disposal of Nuclear Waste Carbon Sequestration Technology Coupled Processes in Porous Media and Application to Geotechnical Systems Landslides/Slope Stability & GIS Applied to Geotechnical Hazards Landfill/Solid Waste Management Geotechnical Hazards Induced by Problem Grounds Academic unit:Department of Civil Engineering Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
