Faculty of Engineering Secondary School | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research and innovation About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Engineering Outreach Faculty of Engineering / Programs for kids / Faculty of Engineering Secondary School About Programs for kidsOnline Summer Programs for Kids Summer Camps for kids Spring Break camps and PD days Clubs for kids Programs for teensSummer Programs for Teens Volunteering program Clubs for teens Activities for teachersuOttawa Maker Mobile Workshop High school presentations Science workshops Engineering Design Day for high school students Events and training for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School EventsEvents for girls Family and community events Photos COVID-19: Last Update Faculty of Engineering Secondary School The Faculty of Engineering Secondary School at the University of Ottawa offers high school students the opportunity to take courses while gaining credits toward their Ontario secondary school diploma. All courses offered follow the Ontario curriculum guidelines while engaging students in hands-on learning opportunities in technological design or computer science. Register to our winter courses! Summer courses Exploring Technological Design (TDJ1O) This 4-week long exploratory course introduces students to concepts and skills related to technological design, which involves the development of solutions to various design challenges and the fabrication of prototypes of those solutions. Students will develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues, and will begin to explore secondary and post-secondary pathways leading to careers in the field. The course curriculum focuses on the engineering design process which is taught through hand sketching, 3D drawings and 3D modelling. The Exploring Technological Design course (TDJ1O) is an open course designed for all high school students. Students in grade 8 may enroll in this reach-ahead course with approval from their parents and written support from their current principal. Students taking this course will gain hands-on design skills right at the Faculty of Engineering. Students who successfully complete the course will gain a full credit toward their secondary school diploma. Outline of Course of Study - TDJ1O Technological Design (TDJ2O) Technological Design - TDJ2O, is a course that provides students with a better understanding of the engineering design process through projects done with microcomputer and virtual reality. Students will have the chance to learn about micro:bit microcomputer, they will use multiple sensors and develop coding to solve common problems. They will also explore, create and program a virtual world using CoSpaces. At the end of the course, the students will take part in an engineering design challenge by creating a virtual world that solves a defined problem. Although this course has no prerequisites, it is helpful to have taken Exploring Technological Design - TDJ1O prior to enrolling in this course. Students in grade 8 may enroll in this reach-ahead course with approval from their parents and written support from their current principal. Students can either take part in the full-course or take Part 1 of the course and come back next summer to complete Part 2. Those who successfully complete the full course will gain a full credit toward their secondary school diploma and those who successfully complete Part 1 of the course will gain half a credit toward their secondary school diploma. Outline of Course of Study - TDJ2O Creative Computing: Introduction to Computer Studies (ICS2O) Creative Computing: Introduction to Computer Studies (ICS2O) is a course that provides students with a better understanding of computers, from hardware components to software applications and operating systems. Following the engineering design process, students will develop programming skills and will create an app to solve a defined problem. Students will also have the opportunity to see real-world software applications through guest speakers of Ottawas innovative tech companies. This is an open course designed for all high school students. Students in grade 8 may enroll in this reach-ahead course with approval from their parents and written support from their current principal. Students enrolled in this course will gain hands-on computer experience and skills right at the Faculty of Engineering. Students can either take part in the full-course or take Part 1 of the course and come back next summer to complete Part 2. Those who successfully complete the full course will gain a full credit toward their secondary school diploma and those who successfully complete Part 1 of the course will gain half a credit toward their secondary school diploma. Outline of Course of Study - ICS2O WebDev Bootcamp: Introduction to Computer Science (ICS3U) WebDev Bootcamp: Introduction to Computer Science (ICS3U) is a course that provides students with an immersive experience in the world of computer science, exploring the basics of software development through a variety of programming languages such as HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Students will learn by doing through a variety of hands-on activities including a virtual computer dissection and website application design (such as creating an online game and online store). The course learning will be complemented with guest speakers of Ottawas leading tech companies, where students will meet industry professionals. Although this course has no prerequisites, it is helpful to have taken Creative Computing: Introduction to Computer Studies - ICS2O (or to have some coding background) prior to enrolling in this course. Students in grade 8 may enroll in this reach-ahead course with approval from their parents and written support from their current principal. Students can either complete the full-course or take Part 1 of the course, and come back next summer to complete Part 2. Those who successfully complete the full course will gain a full credit toward their secondary school diploma and those who successfully complete Part 1 of the course will gain half a credit toward their secondary school diploma. Outline of Course of Study - ICS3U Summer details Grade Students currently in grade 8* to 12 *Any Grade 8 students enrolling in a summer high school course will be taking it as a reach-ahead course; as such, a principal's written recommendation will be required prior to confirmation of enrolment. Language Offered in English only. Location Online Hours The students are expected to complete a total of 110 hours for the full courses (in 4 weeks) and 55 hours for the half courses (in 2 weeks). Therefore, the students need to be available to study every weekday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. The teachers of each course will have weekly synchronous sessions 3 to 5 times per week and daily office hours (between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.). See schedule for details. Schedule Each course runs for four weeks from Monday to Friday, with the exception of civic holidays (July 1st and August 1st, 2022). You may take Part 1 of a course to earn half of a credit, available for ICS2O (July 4th to July 15th, 2022) and TDJ2O (August 2nd to August 12th, 2022). During the summer of 2022, we will be offering Part 2 of TDJ2O to earn half of a credit (August 15th to 26th, 2022). Exploring Technological Design - TDJ1O: July 4th to July 29th, 2022 (Registration deadline: June 12th, 2022) Synchronous sessions: Monday to Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. The rest of the hours are asynchronous. Creative Computing: Introduction to Computer Studies - ICS2O: July 4th to July 29th, 2022 (Registration deadline: June 12th 2022) Synchronous sessions: Monday to Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. The rest of the hours are asynchronous. Technological Design - TDJ2O: August 2nd to August 26th, 2022 (Registration deadline: July 10th, 2022) Synchronous sessions: Monday to Friday (except on August 2nd) from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. The rest of the hours are asynchronous. WebDev Bootcamp: Introduction to Computer Science - ICS3U: August 2nd to August 26th, 2022 (Registration deadline: July 10th, 2022) Synchronous sessions: Monday to Friday (except on August 2nd) from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. The rest of the hours are asynchronous. Cost Full course (4 weeks, 1 credit): Regular: $950 Half course (2 weeks, half credit): Regular: $500 A limited amount of bursaries are available for qualifying families. For more information, contact us at adventures@uOttawa.ca. Prerequisites Although there are no required prerequisites for any of the courses, it is helpful to have taken Creative Computing: Introduction to Computer Studies - ICS2O (or to have some coding background) prior to enrolling in WebDev Bootcamp: Introduction to Computer Science - ICS3U. Required documentation To confirm registration, each student enrolled at the Faculty of Engineering Secondary School must e-mail Engineering.SecondarySchool@uOttawa.ca with the following: their student or personal e-mail address their legal status in Canada: Canadian citizen, permanent resident, temporary resident, or visitor proof of age (copy of birth certificate) proof of grade and school (copy of recent report card) For grade 8 students only: a completed letter signed by their parent/guardian and current principal, approving their enrolment in a reach ahead course. School policies and procedures Refer to our School course calendar for all policies and procedures. Summer registration Register now to our Summer Courses! Fall and Winter courses Technological Design (TDJ2O) Technological Design - TDJ2O, is a course that provides students with a better understanding of the engineering design process through projects done with microcomputer and virtual reality. Students will have the chance to learn about micro:bit microcomputer, they will use multiple sensors and develop their coding skills to solve common problems. They will also explore, create and program a virtual world using CoSpaces. At the end of the course, the students will take part in an engineering design challenge by creating a virtual world that solves a defined problem. The course will be offered in 2 parts: Part 1 will run from September 21st to December 7th, 2021, and Part 2 will run from February 8th to May 3rd, 2022. Students can either take part in the full-course or take Part 1 of the course. Those who successfully complete the full course will gain a full credit toward their secondary school diploma and those who successfully complete Part 1 of the course will gain half a credit toward their secondary school diploma. Students in grade 8 may enroll in this reach-ahead course with approval from their parents and written support from their current principal. Outline of Course of Study for Fall 2021 Outline of Course of Study for Winter 2022 Computer Technology - Quantum Computing (TEJ2O) New course offered in partnership with University of British Columbia and Geering up Engineering Outreach This course introduces students to computer systems, networking, operating systems, application software, and electronics, with a special focus on quantum computing, an emerging technology. Through this course, students will better understand the fundamentals of classical and quantum computing. Students will build small electronic circuits and write computer programs in Python. Students' projects may include research on existing quantum technologies, developing code scripts that run on a quantum simulator, pitching their own quantum computing project, and debate on various quantum vs classical hardware. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to technological design, and will learn about secondary and post-secondary education and careers opportunities in this field. This course is offered online during the winter of 2022. Those who successfully complete the course will gain a half-credit toward their secondary school diploma. Students in grade 8 may enroll in this reach-ahead course with approval from their parents and written support from their current principal. Outline of Course of Study TEJ2O Winter 2022 Introduction to Computer Studies - ICS2O (Technovation) Be part of the change and gain a high school credit at the same time! This course is in collaboration with Technovation! Technovation is the worlds largest global tech entrepreneurship competition for girls. The girls will use their skills acquired in this course to build a business plan and mobile app that will address a community problem. Students taking the course from January to April will earn an ICS2O half-credit. Those who are interested in taking the other half of the credit over the summer (July 4th to 15th, 2022), in order to have earned a full ICS2O credit, will receive a bursary of $500 from Shopify to cover the cost. To be eligible for the bursary, students must: earn the first half of the credit submit to the competition complete a short application Following the engineering design process, the girls will develop programming skills and will createan app to solve a defined problem. The girls will also have the opportunity to gain a better understanding of computers, from hardware components to software applications and operating systems. The girls will have the opportunity to see real-world software applications through guest speakers! Empowering Girls in STEM - Najah El-Gharib (Teacher of ICS2O-Technovation) Course Outline of Study ICS2O Technovation Fall and Winter details Grade Students currently in Grade 8* to 12 *Any Grade 8 students enrolling in a high school course will be taking it as a reach-ahead course; as such, a principal's written recommendation will be required prior to confirmation of enrolment Language Offered in English only. Locations and schedule for TDJ2O Course Part 1 of this course will also be offered in an online setting through live sessions with the teacher and individual work. Students will have 3 hours of personal work to do during the week. Online sessions every Tuesday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. September 21st to December 7th, 2021 (Deadline to register is September 12th, 2021) Part 2 of this course will also be offered in an online setting through live sessions with the teacher and individual work. Students will have 3 hours of personal work to do during the week. Online sessions every Tuesday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. February 8th to May 3rd, 2022 (with no class during March break) (Deadline to register is January 30th, 2022) Cost for TDJ2O Course Part 1: $450 Part 2: $450 Locations and schedule for TEJ2O Course This course will also be offered in an online setting through live sessions with the teacher and individual work. Students will have 3 hours of personal work to do during the week. Online sessions every Thursday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. February 10th to May 5th, 2022 (Deadline to register is January 23rd, 2022) Cost for TEJ2O Course $450 Locations and schedule for ICS2O Technovation Course - For girls only ICS2O is offered in collaboration with Technovation 2022 and will be following the Technovation Ontario schedule. The girls will also be meeting onSaturdays for live sessions with the teacher and they will have 2hours of personal work to do during the week. Online sessions every Wednesday from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Online sessions on the following Saturdays from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.: January 29th, February 12th, February 26th, March 26th, April 9th, May 7th January 12th to May 7th, 2022 Cost for ISC2O Technovation Course Free Required documentation for all courses When registering for any courses, each student will need to provide the following documents: proof of Technovation 2022 registration (only for ICS2O Technovation course) their student or personal e-mail address their legal status in Canada: Canadian citizen, permanent resident, temporary resident, or visitor proof of age (copy of birth certificate) proof of grade and school (copy of recent report card) for grade 8 students exceptionally: a completed letter signed by their parent/guardian and current principal, approving their enrolment in a reach ahead course their Individual Education Plan (IEP), if they have one. School policies and procedures Refer to our School course calendar for all policies and procedures. Note: Following a 2021 inspection, the Faculty of Engineering Secondary School received credit-granting authority from the Ministry of Education. The school has been assigned a BSID number by the Ministry and is listed as a private school on the Ministry website. Fall and Winter registration Register now to our Fall and Winter Courses! Frequently-asked questions Policies and accreditation Where can I find information regarding your school policies on: code of conduct, tardiness, plagiarism, dress code etc? Please review our School Course Calendar for information regarding our school policies Are the courses accredited? Following a 2019 inspection, the Faculty of Engineering Secondary School received credit-granting authority from the Ministry of Education. The school has been assigned a BSID number by the Ministry and is listed as a private school on the Ministry website. All students who successfully passed their summer courses in 2019 were granted credits for those courses. Back to top Contact us Outreach Office Faculty of Engineering, University of OttawaCBY B111 (map) 161 Louis-Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Monday to Friday 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tel.: 613-562-5491 Fax: 613-562-5174engineering.outreach@uOttawa.ca Adventures in Engineering and Science: adventures@uOttawa.ca uOttawa Maker Mobile Workshop: makermobile@uOttawa.ca Faculty of Engineering Secondary School: Engineering.SecondarySchool@uOttawa.ca Subscribe to Outreach programs newsletters Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
