Loyka, Sergey | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research and innovation About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Loyka, Sergey AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Sergey Loyka E-Card Sergey LoykaProfessorPh.D.M.Sc.Room: CBY A608Office: 613 562-5800 ext. 6481Work E-mail: Sergey.Loyka@uOttawa.cahttp://www.site.uottawa.ca/~sloyka/ Biography Since May 2009 School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Ottawa, Canada Professor (tenured). Modeling, performance analysis and design of wireless networks (including cognitive radio). Relaying in wireless communications. MIMO systems. Convex optimization for digital/wireless communications. Fundamental physical limits in wireless communications. Since May 2005 School of Information Technology and Engineering, University of Ottawa, Canada Associate Professor (tenured). Analytical and numerical techniques for the performance analysis of the BLAST algorithm. MIMO channel capacity analysis. Wireless propagation channel modeling and simulation. Efficient numerical techniques for wireless system simulation in fading channels. Fundamental limits in wireless communications. September 2001 April 2005 School of Information Technology and Engineering, University of Ottawa, Canada Assistant Professor (tenure-track). February 2000 August 2001 Laboratory of Communications and Integrated Microelectronics (LACIME), cole de Technologie Suprieure (TS), Montreal, Canada Research Fellow. Performance analysis of multi-antenna (MIMO/BLAST) architecture over correlated fading channels. Development of matrix wireless channel models. Adaptive MIMO architecture. Propagation modeling for microwave airborne communication links. Nonlinear numerical modeling and simulation of RF/microwave circuits for wireless design. July 1999 - January 2000 Laboratory of Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC), BelorussianStateUniversity of Informatics and Radioelectronics (BSUIR), Minsk, Belarus Senior Research Scientist. Nonlinear numerical modeling and simulation of RF/microwave circuits and systems for wireless communication system design. Development of CAD/CAE tools. Performance analysis of the multi-antenna BLAST architecture over correlated fading channels. Nov.1998 July 1999 Laboratory of Electromagnetism and Acoustic (LEMA), Swiss Federal Institute of Technology- Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland Invited Scientist. Nonlinear numerical modeling and simulation of RF and microwave circuits and systems. The influence of electromagnetic environment on operation of smart antennas - modeling and simulation techniques. Development of CAD/CAE tools. Experimental work (models validation). Channel capacity of Bell Labs Layered Space-Time (BLAST) architecture in arbitrary multipath environment. June 1995-October 1998 EMC Laboratory, BSUIR, Minsk, Belarus Senior Research Scientist and Principal Project Engineer (team leader) of an international project on the development of sophisticated software for analysis and prediction of electromagnetic compatibility and interference in avionics and ground radio and electronic systems. Research in EMC/EMI in RF/microwave systems, computer-aided modeling and simulation of RF circuits/systems, nonlinear analysis of active array antennas in interference electromagnetic environment, performance of self-phased arrays under conditions of multipath propagation and their application to mobile communications; the problem of energy-momentum conservation in general relativity in terms of Grobner basis. January 1992 - May 1995 Independent Consultant and Research Associate (part time, EMC Lab, BSUIR). Consulting graduate students and local industry in the fields of modeling, simulation and design of analogue/digital and RF circuits/systems, control system, including diploma projects. Research in the radio spectrum used by and the spectrum efficiency of communication systems; the antennas role in EMC/EMI of radio systems. Two-signal (IMP) testing of microwave receivers. Fabrication, debugging and troubleshooting of TV receiver circuits. October 1989 - December 1991 Laboratory of Advanced Radio Receivers, Minsk Radioengineering Institute, Minsk, Belarus Research Engineer (part time). Research in the field of reliability of fault-tolerant semiconductor memory, in particular: a fault-tolerant VLSI memory reliability in terms of Markov stochastical processes, increase in VLSI memory reliability and methods of reliability analysis of VLSI memory with correction of single and double errors. Fabrication, debugging and troubleshooting of RF circuits. July 1988 - September 1989 Military Communications Department RF Technician (communications systems). Repairing, debugging and troubleshooting communications systems and subsystems. Fields of Interest Wireless & mobile communications (physical layer) Multi-antenna (MIMO) systems (capacity analysis, propagation channel, performance) Wireless networks Cognitive radio Smart antennas Propagation channel modeling Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
