Yao, Jianping | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research and innovation About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Yao, Jianping AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Jianping Yao E-Card Jianping YaoUniversity Research Chair in Microwave Photonics and Distinguished University ProfessorPhDPEngFOSAFIEEEFCAERoom: ARC 311Office: 613-562-5800 ext. 6309Work E-mail: jpyao@uOttawa.cahttp://www.site.uottawa.ca/~jpyao/ Biography Jianping Yao (M'99-SM'01-F'12) received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the Universit de Toulon, Toulon, France, in December 1997. He joined the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, as an Assistant Professor in 2001, where he became an Associate Professor in 2003, and a Full Professor in 2006. He was appointed University Research Chair in Microwave Photonics in 2007. From July 2007 to June 2010, he was the Director of the Ottawa-Carleton Institute for Electrical and Computer Engineering. Prior to joining the University of Ottawa, he was an Assistant Professor in the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, from 1999 to 2011. Professor Yao is a principal investigator of more than 20 projects, including five strategic grant projects funded by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. He has published more than 510 papers (H-index: 55), including more than 310 papers in peer-reviewed journals and 170 papers in conference proceedings. Dr. Yao is a Fellow of IEEE, the Optical Society of America and the Canadian Academy of Engineering. His research interests focus on microwave photonics, which includes photonic processing of microwave signals, photonic generation of microwave, millimeter-wave and terahertz, radio over fibre, ultrawideband over fiber, and photonic generation of microwave arbitrary waveforms. His research also covers fiber optics and biophotonics, which includes fiber lasers, fiber and waveguide Bragg gratings, fiber-optic sensors, microfluidics, optical coherence tomography, and Fourier-transform spectroscopy. Dr. Yao is currently an Associate Editor of the International Journal of Microwave and Optical Technology. He is on the Editorial Board of the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. He is a Chair of numerous international conferences, symposia, and workshops, including the Vice Technical Program Committee (TPC) Chair of the IEEE Microwave Photonics Conference in 2007, the TPC Co-Chair of the Asia-Pacific Microwave Photonics Conference in 2009 and 2010, the TPC Chair of the high-speed and broadband wireless technologies subcommittee of the IEEE Radio Wireless Symposium in 2009-2012, the TPC Chair of the microwave photonics subcommittee of the IEEE Photonics Society Annual Meeting in 2009, the TPC Chair of the IEEE Microwave Photonics Conference in 2010, and the General Co-Chair of the IEEE Microwave Photonics Conference in 2011. He is also a committee member of numerous international conferences. Professor Yao received the 2005 International Creative Research Award at the University of Ottawa. He was the recipient of the 2007 George S. Glinski Award for Excellence in Research and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada Discovery Accelerator Supplements Award in 2008. Professor Yao is a registered Professional Engineer of Ontario. He is a Fellow of IEEE, a Fellow of the Optical Society of America (OSA), and a Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineering (CAE). Fields of Interest Microwave Photonics Photonic generation and processing of microwave signals Photonic generation of arbitrary microwave waveforms Radio over fiber Optically controlled phased array antennas Silicon photonics Microwave photonics sensors Fiber Bragg gratings Biomedical microwave photonics Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
