Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Quick Links Purdue Engineering College of Engineering Academic Units Aeronautics and Astronautics Agricultural and Biological Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Construction Engineering and Management Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Education Environmental and Ecological Engineering Industrial Engineering Materials Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Programs College of Engineering Honors Program First-Year Engineering Program Office of Future Engineers EPICS Global Engineering Programs and Partnerships Indiana Space Grant Consortium Minority Engineering Program Professional Practice (Co-Op) Program Women in Engineering Program Innovation and Leadership Studies Vertically Integrated Projects Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Search Loading Lyles School of Civil Engineering Menu Home About Us About Us Welcome CE News Events Calendar Facilities Awards & Honors History Contact Us CE Apparel Store CE by the Numbers Our People Our People Directory Faculty Administrative Offices Staff Committees Alumni Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Academics Academics Specialty Areas Undergraduate Program Burke Graduate Program Cooperative Education Program CE Continuing Lectures Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Bowen Laboratory Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards School of Civil Engineering Distinguished Engineering Alumni eConnections Alumni Newsletter Civil Engineering Advisory Council Give to CE Purdue Online Engineering Alumni Association Engineering Alumni Association Giving Giving Giving Giving Priorities Civil Engineering Development Team Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Gifts Excel Fund President's Council Donor Bill of Rights Intranet Purdue Engineering Lyles School of Civil Engineering Our People Jon D. Fricker Professor of Civil Engineering Purdue University Lyles School of Civil Engineering 550 Stadium Mall Drive West Lafayette, IN 47907-2051 Office: HAMP G167C Phone: (765) 494-2205 Email: fricker@purdue.edu Specialty Area(s) Transportation and Infrastructure Systems Education Ph.D., Carnegie Mellon M.S.C.E., Carnegie Mellon S.B.C.E., Massachusetts Institute of Technology Research Summary Transportation and urban planning, bicycle and pedestrian transportation, infrastructure and asset management, public (mass) transportation Selected Research Projects FHWA/INDOT, Measurement and Monitoring of the Performance of Highway Investment, 2013 FHWA/INDOT, Updated Methods for Traffic Impact Analysis, Including Evaluation of Innovative Intersection Designs, October 2013 Indiana LTAP, Best Management Practices for Right-of-Way on County Roads, November 2013 FHWA/INDOT, Employing Asset Management to Control Costs and Sustain Highway Levels of Service, 2014 FHWA/INDOT, Estimation and Prediction of Statewide VMT by Vehicle & Functional Class, 2015 FHWA/INDOT, Strategies for Grouping of Transportation Projects, July 2016 FHWA/INDOT, Strategic Scheduling of Infrastructure Repair and Maintenance Funding, August 2016 FHWA/INDOT, Economic Development Impact of Corridor Improvements, August 2017 Honors & Awards Harland Bartholomew Award, American Society of Civil Engineers, "for contributions to the enhancement of the role of the civil engineer in urban planning and development," received 14 August 2006. Outstanding Paper, "A Statewide Performance Function for Steel Bridge Protection Programs," by Tarek M. Zayed, Luh-Maan Chang, and Jon D. Fricker, Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities, American Society of Civil Engineers, Vol. 16, No. 2, p. 46-54, May 2002, was one of four papers nominated by readers of that journal. Outstanding Paper, Sixth Conference on Application of Transportation Planning Methods, Jon D. Fricker and Andrew Ying-Ming Yen, "An Integrated Transportation-Land Use Model for Indiana," Dearborn, Michigan, 19-23 May, 1997. ITE Technical Council Award, Institute of Transportation Engineers, as Chairman, Committee 6F-27: Transportation Energy Contingency Planning, recognized for "the significance of the committee's contribution to the transportation engineering profession," 1997. Selected Publications Tanaka, Alison M., Jon D. Fricker, and John E. Haddock, "Determining Viable Sizes for Indiana Communities Based on Essential Establishments and Services," Journal of Urban Planning and Development, American Society of Civil Engineers, March 2013, Vol. 139, Number 1, 9. 33-39. Rod E. Turochy, Jon D. Fricker, H. Gene Hawkins, David S. Hurwitz, Stephanie Ivey, Michael A. Knodler, and Rhonda Kae Young, "Assessment of Introductory Transportation Engineering Course and General Transportation Engineering Curriculum," Transportation Research Record No. 2328, Journal of the Transportation Research Board, March 2013, p. 9-15. Kang Lei and Jon D. Fricker, "Bicyclist Commuters' Choice of On-Street vs. Off-Street Route Segments," Transportation: Volume 40, Issue 5 (2013), Page 887-902, August 2013. Everett, Stephanie, Yingge Xiong, Kumares C. Sinha, and Jon D. Fricker, "Ex Post Facto Program Evaluation: Lessons Learned from Assessment of Indiana's Highway Investment Program," Transportation Research Record No. 2345, Journal of the Transportation Research Board, 2013, p. 24-30. Warith, Karim A., Panagiotis Ch. Anastasopoulos, Wayne Richardson, Jon D. Fricker and John E. Haddock, "Design of Local Roadway Infrastructure to Service Sustainable Energy Facilities," Journal of Energy, Sustainability and Society, Volume 4, Number 14, 28 June 2014, doi:10.1186/2192-0567-4-14. Pyrialakou, V. D., Gkritza, K., Fricker, J., Accessibility, Mobility, and Realized Travel Behavior: Assessing Rural Disadvantage from a Policy Perspective. Journal of Transport Geography. 51:252-269, January 2016. Kang Lei and Jon D. Fricker, "Sharing urban sidewalks with bicyclists? An exploratory analysis of pedestrian perceptions and attitudes," Transport Policy, Volume 49, July 2016, Pages 216-225. Pyrialakou, V. D., Gkritza, K., Fricker, J., Accessibility, Mobility, and Realized Travel Behavior: Assessing Rural Disadvantage from a Policy Perspective. Journal of Transport Geography. Volume 51, February 2016, Pages 252-269. Xiong, Yingge, Jon D. Fricker, and Samuel Labi. "Bundling or Grouping Pavement and Bridge Projects: Analysis and Strategies," Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2613. DOI is 10.3141/2613-05. To be posted to TRR Online (https://journals.sagepub.com/home/trr) between January 2 and March 31, 2017. Chacon-Hurtado, Davis. Eleni Bardaka; Ruiman Yang, Konstantina Gkritza, and Jon D. Fricker. "Tools for Wider Economic Impact Assessment of Corridor Improvements: Lessons Learned from the FHWA Implementation Assistance Program in Indiana." ASCE Journal of Transportation Engineering, Part A: Systems. Accepted for publication December 2016. Our People CE People Faculty Directory Staff Directory Administration Committees Alumni & Friends CE Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2021 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact the Engineering Administration Communications Office for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ce@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
