Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Quick Links Purdue Engineering College of Engineering Academic Units Aeronautics and Astronautics Agricultural and Biological Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Construction Engineering and Management Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Education Environmental and Ecological Engineering Industrial Engineering Materials Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Programs College of Engineering Honors Program First-Year Engineering Program Office of Future Engineers EPICS Global Engineering Programs and Partnerships Indiana Space Grant Consortium Minority Engineering Program Professional Practice (Co-Op) Program Women in Engineering Program Innovation and Leadership Studies Vertically Integrated Projects Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Search Loading Lyles School of Civil Engineering Menu Home About Us About Us Welcome CE News Events Calendar Facilities Awards & Honors History Contact Us CE Apparel Store CE by the Numbers Our People Our People Directory Faculty Administrative Offices Staff Committees Alumni Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Academics Academics Specialty Areas Undergraduate Program Burke Graduate Program Cooperative Education Program CE Continuing Lectures Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Bowen Laboratory Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards School of Civil Engineering Distinguished Engineering Alumni eConnections Alumni Newsletter Civil Engineering Advisory Council Give to CE Purdue Online Engineering Alumni Association Engineering Alumni Association Giving Giving Giving Giving Priorities Civil Engineering Development Team Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Gifts Excel Fund President's Council Donor Bill of Rights Intranet Purdue Engineering Lyles School of Civil Engineering Our People Rodrigo Salgado Charles Pankow Professor in Civil Engineering Purdue University Lyles School of Civil Engineering 550 Stadium Mall Drive West Lafayette, IN 47907-2051 Office: HAMP G235 Phone: (765) 494-5030 Email: salgado@purdue.edu Web: personal web site Specialty Area(s) Geotechnical Engineering Affiliation(s) Bowen Laboratory Education Ph.D., University of California at Berkeley, 1993 M.S., University of California at Berkeley, 1990 B.S., Universidade Federal do Rio Grande Do Sul, 1986 Research Summary Prof. Salgado is the author of 120 journal publications, 81 conference publications, 30 technical reports and the text The Engineering of Foundations. He has supervised 27 Ph.D. students to completion and has been the recipient of prestigious awards, including the ICE Geotechnical Research Medal (2015), the Outstanding Reviewer Award from Computers and Geotechnics (2015), the IACMAG Excellent Contributions Award (2008), the Prakash Research Award (2005), the ASCE Huber Research Prize (2004), and the ASCE Arthur Casagrande Award (1999). He has also been an invited participant of the U.S. and U.S.-China editions of the National Academy of Engineering Frontiers of Engineering Symposium. He is a Fellow of ASCE and has been inducted into the GeoAcademy. He is an Editor of the ASCE Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvioronmental Engineering and serves on the editorial boards of several top journals. Prof. Salgado's interests lie in geomechanics, foundation engineering, computational mechanics, constitutive modeling and offshore and energy engineering. Selected Research Projects Experimental Study of the Load Response of Large-Diameter Steel Pipe Piles, JTRP (FHWA-INDOT) Experimental Investigation of Deep Penetration in Sand, NSF Pile Driving Analysis for Design and Quality Assurance, JTRP (FHWA-INDOT) Assessment of the Performance of MSE Abutment Walls in Indiana, JTRP (FHWA-INDOT) Moisture-Strength-Constructability Guidelines for Subgrade Foundation Soils Found in Indiana Honors & Awards Computers and Geotechnics Outstanding Reviewer, Elsevier, 2015 Geotechnical Research Medal, Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), 2015 (best ICE geotechnical engineering paper, published in Gotechnique in 2014) Distinguished Visiting Researcher, CAPES, Brazil, selected in 2013 Distinguished Foreign Expert (1000 Scholars Plan of the Chinese Federal Government), selected in 2013 (unable to participate due to time constraints) Diplomate, Academy of Geoprofessionals, ASCE, 2012 Southeast University Fellow, Southeast University, China, 2011 Fellow, American Society of Civil Engineers, ASCE, elected in 2011 Invited Participant, NAE U.S.-China Frontiers of Engineering Program, 2009 Invited Paper to the 60th Anniversary Issue of Gotechnique Excellent Contributions Award, IACMAG, 2008 Invited Participant, NAE Frontiers of Engineering Program, 2005 Shamsher Prakash Research Award, 2005 ASCE Walter L. Huber Research Prize, 2004 Gledden Senior Fellowship, University of Western Australia, 2000 ASCE Arthur Casagrande Professional Development Award, 1999 National Science Foundation Research Initiation Award, 1994 Parker-Trask Graduate Fellowship, University of California, Berkeley, 1989-90 Selected Publications Arshad, M., Tehrani, F., Prezzi, M., and Salgado, R., (2014). "Experimental study of cone penetration in sand using digital image correlation." Gotechnique, 64(7), 551-569. Winner of the Geotechnical Research Medal from the Institution of Civil Engineers for the best geotechnical paper published by ICE in 2014. Woo, S.I., and Salgado, R., (2015). "Bounding surface modeling of sand with consideration of fabric and its evolution during shearing." International Journal of Solids and Structures, 63, 277-288. Salgado, R., Loukidis, D., Abou-Jaoude, G., and Zhang, Y., (2015). "The role of soil stiffness non-linearity in 1-D pile driving simulations." Gotechnique, 65(3), 169-187. Tehrani, F., Han, F., Salgado, R., Prezzi, M., Dario Tovar, R., and Galvis-Castro, A., (2016). "Effect of surface Roughness on the shaft resistance of non-displacement piles embedded in sand." Gotechnique 66(5), 386-400. Han, F., Salgado, R., Prezzi, M., Lim, J., (2017). "Shaft and base resistance of non-displacement piles in sand." Computers and Geotechnics. More publications: http://128.46.205.181:12002/publications_rs.aspx Our People CE People Faculty Directory Staff Directory Administration Committees Alumni & Friends CE Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2021 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact the Engineering Administration Communications Office for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ce@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
