Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Quick Links Purdue Engineering College of Engineering Academic Units Aeronautics and Astronautics Agricultural and Biological Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Construction Engineering and Management Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Education Environmental and Ecological Engineering Industrial Engineering Materials Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Programs College of Engineering Honors Program First-Year Engineering Program Office of Future Engineers EPICS Global Engineering Programs and Partnerships Indiana Space Grant Consortium Minority Engineering Program Professional Practice (Co-Op) Program Women in Engineering Program Innovation and Leadership Studies Vertically Integrated Projects Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Search Loading Lyles School of Civil Engineering Menu Home About Us About Us Welcome CE News Events Calendar Facilities Awards & Honors History Contact Us CE Apparel Store CE by the Numbers Our People Our People Directory Faculty Administrative Offices Staff Committees Alumni Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Academics Academics Specialty Areas Undergraduate Program Burke Graduate Program Cooperative Education Program CE Continuing Lectures Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Bowen Laboratory Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards School of Civil Engineering Distinguished Engineering Alumni eConnections Alumni Newsletter Civil Engineering Advisory Council Give to CE Purdue Online Engineering Alumni Association Engineering Alumni Association Giving Giving Giving Giving Priorities Civil Engineering Development Team Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Gifts Excel Fund President's Council Donor Bill of Rights Intranet Purdue Engineering Lyles School of Civil Engineering Our People Amit H. Varma Karl H. Kettelhut Professor in Civil Engineering and Director of Bowen Laboratory Purdue University Lyles School of Civil Engineering 550 Stadium Mall Drive West Lafayette, IN 47907-2051 Office: HAMP 4123 / BOWN 1025 Phone: (765) 496-3419 Email: ahvarma@purdue.edu Web: personal web site Twitter: https://twitter.com/prof_varma Specialty Area(s) Structural Engineering Affiliation(s) Bowen Laboratory Steel Bridge Research, Inspection, Training, and Engineering Center Education Ph.D., Lehigh University, 2001 M.S., University of Oklahoma, 1996 B.S., Indian Institute of Technology, 1994 Research Summary Seismic and fire behavior, analysis, and design of steel-concrete composite structures. Repair and retrofit of deterioration and damaged infrastructure. Selected Research Projects July 2006-July 2009, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Realistic Fire Behavior and Stability of Steel Building Structures and Sub-system, Varma. May 2006-May 2007, Bechtel Power Corporation, Behavior and Design of Modular Steel Plated Composite Walls for Nuclear Facilities, Varma. January 2006 - April 2008, Evaluation and Verification of Bridge LRFD Design Software, Indiana Department of Transportation. January 2006 - April 2007, Synthesis Study: Heat Treatment of Steel and Applications for Rehabilitating Steel Bridges in Indiana, Indiana Department of Transportation. August 2005 - December 2005, Analysis of Modular Composite Sandwich Panel Walls for Nuclear Facilities, Bechtel Nuclear Power Corporation. January 2004 - July 2006, A Laboratory Evaluation of Alignment Tolerances For Dowel Bars and Their Effect on Joint Opening Behavior, Michigan Department of Transportation, Co-Principal. Complete Listing Honors & Awards 2003 - 2007 AISC Milek Faculty Fellowship Award The American Institute of Steel Construction gives this award annually to a faculty member involved in steel design research, education and testing. The award includes unrestricted research gift for supporting graduate students and continuing research in the awardees area of interest. Dr. Varma was the first recipient of this award when it was instituted. 2009 Roy E. and Myrna G. Wansik Research Award The School of Civil Engineering gives this award annually to one faculty member based on research accomplishments. 2010 & 2012 Seeds for Success ACORN Award The Office of the Vice President for Research gives this award in recognition of the accomplishments of single investigators and teams of investigators for their efforts in obtaining a $1 million dollar or more research grant. 2011 - 2016 University Faculty Scholar The Office of the Provost recognizes outstanding faculty members who are on an accelerated path for academic distinction by the University Faculty Scholars Program 2012 Harold Munson Outstanding Teacher Award The School of Civil Engineering gives this award annually to one faculty member. The recipient is selected based on student votes for instructors of all courses in Civil Engineering. Selected Publications Kowalkowski, K.*, and Varma, A.H., (2006) "Structural Properties of Steels Subjected to Multiple Cycles of Damage Followed by Heating Repair," Journal of Structural Engineering, tentatively accepted for publication, ASCE. Prabhu, M., Varma, A.H.*, Buch, N., and Thandavesvara, D., (2006) "Experimental Evaluation of Dowel Misalignment on Joint Pullout Behavior," Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, recommended for publication, TRB, Washington, D.C. Kowalkowski, K., and Varma, A.H., (2005) "Experimental Investigations of the Effects of Multiple Damage-Heat Straightening Repair Cycles on the Structural Properties of Bridge Steels." Transportation Research Board, recommended for publication, TRB, Washington, D.C. Varma, A.H., Sause, R., Ricles, J.M., and Qinggang, L., (2005) "Development and Validation of Fiber Models for High Strength Square CFT Beam-Columns." ACI Structural Journal, American Concrete Institute, 102, 1, 73-85, Farmington Hills, MI. Varma, A.H., Ricles, J.M., Sause, R., and Ream, A., (2004) "Seismic Behavior and Design of High Strength Square Concrete Filled Steel Tube Beam-Columns," Journal of Structural Engineering, ASCE, 130, 2, 169-179. Varma, A.H., Ricles, J.M., Sause, R., and Lu, L.W., (2002). "Seismic Behavior and Modeling of High Strength Composite Concrete Filled Steel Tube Beam-Columns," Journal of Constructional Steel Research, Elsevier Applied Science, Volume 58, Issue 5-8, pp. 725-758. Complete Listing Our People CE People Faculty Directory Staff Directory Administration Committees Alumni & Friends CE Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2021 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact the Engineering Administration Communications Office for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ce@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
