Steffany Chamut Villarreal | Harvard Catalyst Profiles | Harvard Catalyst Harvard Catalyst Profiles Contact, publication, and social network information about Harvard faculty and fellows. Home About Overview Open Source Software Help History (1)Chamut Villarreal, SteffanySee All Pages Find PeopleFind Everything Login to edit your profile (add a photo, awards, links to other websites, etc.) Edit My Profile My Person List (0) Return to Top Steffany Chamut Villarreal, D.D.S. TitleInstructor in Oral Health Policy and EpidemiologyInstitutionHarvard School of Dental MedicineDepartmentOral Health Pol & EpidemiologyAddressHarvard School of Dental MedicineReb 222188 Longwood Ave Boston MA 02115Phone617/432-3573EmailvCardDownload vCard (login for email) education and training|awards and honors|webpage|media links|research activities and funding|selected publications| Biographyeducation and trainingNational Institutes of Health/National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, Bethesda, MD.USADental Public Health Residency, Dental Specialty Certificate.A.T. Still University, Kirksville, MO. USAMaster of Public Health.The University of Texas Health Science Center , San Antonio, TX. USACertificate and Preceptorship Program in Restorative Prosthetics.Universidad Autnoma de Coahuila, Facultad de Odontologa, Torren, Coahuila de Zaragoza, Mxico Doctor of Dental Surgery.Escuela Tcnica Dental de la Laguna, Torren, Coahuila de Zaragoza, MxicoAdvanced Theoretical and Clinical Training in Dental Prosthetics awards and honors2006Honorary Mention. DDS2015 - 2016Intramural Research Training Award (IRTA) National Institutes of Health2015Congressional Operation Seminar at Capitol Hill Scholarship2016 - 2017Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) Training Award2017U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), HHS Ignite Lab Accelerator2017Idea Spring Innovation2019International College of Dentists Fellow (FICD)2021Dental Public Health Faculty Recognition2020 - 2021CVS Health Scholarship/Leadership Institute2021 - 2022Health and Aging Policy Fellow2021 - 2022 American Political Science Association Congressional Fellow OverviewwebpageHarvard School of Dental Medicine: Instructor in Oral Health Policy and Epidemiology, Full TimeNational Center for Equitable Care for Elders: Curriculum Evaluation LeadHealth and Aging Policy Fellowship: New York State Psychiatric Institute, Columbia University media linksMaster of Public HealthDental, ATSU | Steffany Chamut-Villarreal (Oct 28, 2014) NIH. National Advisory Dental and Craniofacial Research Council: Meeting Minutes: September 2015 (Sep 2015) Harvard School of Dental Medicine (April 16, 2018) Alerta Por Salud Bucal (Nov 28, 2018 ) Harvard School of Dental Medicine (Oct 4, 2018) Strengthening a Collaborative Research Strategy through Lessons Learned in Public Health, Nutrition (Dec 6, 2018) International College of Dentists (ICD) Section XX Fellow Induction Journal of the International C (2019) ADEA: Bulletin of Dental Education (January 2019) Mexico.XXXVII Congreso Internacional de Odontologa ADM-AMIC 2019 (Nov 2019) Colgate Profesional Latinoamerica Channel (Spanish) Genie in a bottle: La odontologa mundial ante los retos de la nueva realidad (May 15, 2020) IDAcademia Channel (May 15, 2020) Global Health-MexicoHarvard Dental Bulletin Spring 2020. Volume 80, Number 1. (Spring 2020) Harvard School of Dental Medicine Research Bulletin May-June 2020 (May-June 2020) HSDM Secures $3 Million Grant to Expand Dental Public Health in Rural Areas (June 25, 2020) Researchresearch activities and funding The research activities and funding listed below are automatically derived from NIH ExPORTER and other sources, which might result in incorrect or missing items. Faculty can login to make corrections and additions. Most Recent|List All D88HP37552 (Christine Riedy) Jul 1, 2020-Jun 30, 2025 U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Catalyzing Oral Health Workforce for Rural and Vulnerable Populations/ Postdoctoral Training in General, Pediatric and Public Health Dentistry and Dental Hygiene. Role Description: Purpose: To establish two new postdoctoral training programs [Advanced Education in General Dentistry and the first and only Dental Public Health residency in the country with a dedicated rural track] that will directly address a gap in dental education and in access oral health care delivery with respect to underserved and vulnerable populations in rural areas. Role: Co-PI: Associate Residencies Director (Donna Hackley) Jan 2, 2012 U.S. government, Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and ELMA Philanthropies. Rwanda Human Resources for Health Program (HRH). University of Rwanda School of Dentistry. Role Description: The HRH Program was established in 2012 as a health professional training initiative to build and strengthen the health education infrastructure and workforce necessary to create a high-quality, sustainable healthcare system in Rwanda. As a result of this program, the first dental school in Rwanda was created and graduated their first cohort of students in November 2018. Role: Co-Investigator (Brittany Seymour) David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies Strengthening a Collaborative Research Strategy through Lessons Learned in Public Health, Nutrition and Oral Health Programs in Mexico and the U.S. Role Description: Provided operational/execution and policy guidance to address oral health as an area of interest within the initiatives on nutrition, measures to reduce sugar-sweetened beverages consumption and obesity in Mexico and the U.S. Role: Co-PI U30CS30788 (Christine Riedy) U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) National Center for Equitable Care for Elders, National Training and Technical Assistance Center (NCECE) Role Description: 2017-2023-Renewable NCECE provides innovative and culturally competent models of care, interprofessional training and educational resources, and technical assistance to health care professionals in community health centers who provide care to an increasingly vulnerable population: older adults. Role: Co-Investigator: Curricular and Program Evaluation Lead Bibliographicselected publications Publications listed below are automatically derived from MEDLINE/PubMed and other sources, which might result in incorrect or missing publications. Faculty can login to make corrections and additions. Newest | Oldest | Most Cited | Most Discussed | Timeline | Field Summary | Plain Text PMC Citations indicate the number of times the publication was cited by articles in PubMed Central, and the Altmetric score represents citations in news articles and social media. (Note that publications are often cited in additional ways that are not shown here.) Fields are based on how the National Library of Medicine (NLM) classifies the publication's journal and might not represent the specific topic of the publication. Translation tags are based on the publication type and the MeSH terms NLM assigns to the publication. Some publications (especially newer ones and publications not in PubMed) might not yet be assigned Field or Translation tags.) Click a Field or Translation tag to filter the publications. AlDukhail S, Alhazmi H, Riedy C, Barrow JR, Chamut S. Oral health outcomes among adults with diabetes served at HRSA-funded health centers. J Diabetes Complications. 2021 09; 35(9):107979. PMID: 34243996. Citations: Fields:End Endocrinology Chamut S, Boroumand S, Iafolla TJ, Adesanya M, Fazio EM, Dye BA. Self-Reported Dental Visits Among Older Adults Receiving Home- and Community-Based Services. J Appl Gerontol. 2021 08; 40(8):902-913. PMID: 32525439. Citations: Fields:Acq Acquired Immunodeficiency SyndGer GeriatricsTranslation:Humans Mutis MJ., Chamut S, Davila C, Moron E. . Status of the epidemiological surveillance systems for salt and water fluoridation programs in Latin America and the Caribbean. 2019; 80(38):1-105. View Publication. Mukherjee A, Livinski AA, Millum J, Chamut S, Boroumand S, Iafolla TJ, Adesanya MR, Dye BA. Informed consent in dental care and research for the older adult population: A systematic review. J Am Dent Assoc. 2017 04; 148(4):211-220. PMID: 28065430. Citations: 6Fields:Den DentistryTranslation:Humans This graph shows the total number of publications by year. To see the data as text, click here. This graph shows the total number of publications by year. To return to the graph, click here. YearPublications20171201912020120211 This graph shows the number and percent of publications by field. Fields are based on how the National Library of Medicine (NLM) classifies the publications' journals and might not represent the specific topics of the publications. Note that an individual publication can be assigned to more than one field. As a result, the publication counts in this graph might add up to more than the number of publications the person has written. To see the data as text, click here. This graph shows the number and percent of publications by field. Fields are based on how the National Library of Medicine (NLM) classifies the publications' journals and might not represent the specific topics of the publications. Note that an individual publication can be assigned to more than one field. As a result, the publication counts in this graph might add up to more than the number of publications the person has written. To see the data as text, click here. Start with: newest oldest Include: line numbers double spacing all authors publication IDs Local representatives can answer questions about the Profiles website or help with editing a profile or issues with profile data. For assistance with this profile: HMS/HSDM faculty should contact contactcatalyst.harvard.edu. For faculty or fellow appointment updates and changes, please ask your appointing department to contact HMS. For fellow personal and demographic information, contact HMS Human Resources at human_resourceshms.harvard.edu. For faculty personal and demographic information, contact HMS Office for Faculty Affairs at facappthms.harvard.edu. Chamut Villarreal's Networks Click the Explore buttons for more information and interactive visualizations! Concepts (11) Derived automatically from this person's publications. Dental Research Community Health Services Informed Consent Dental Care for Aged Educational Status Explore _ Co-Authors (3) People in Profiles who have published with this person. Aldukhail, Shaikha Riedy, Christine Barrow, Jane Explore _ Similar People (60) People who share similar concepts with this person. Rimm, Eric Scheer, Frank Cohen, Juliana Kenney, Erica Bleich, Sara Explore _ Same Department People in same department with this person. Elani, Hawazin Isong, Inyang Kakadia, Rahen Schnitman, Paul Zdanowicz, John Explore _ 2021 President and Fellows of Harvard College Accessibility Contact Funded by the NIH National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences through its Clinical and Translational Science Awards Program, grant number UL1TR002541.
