Jeffrey Casiglia | Harvard Catalyst Profiles | Harvard Catalyst Harvard Catalyst Profiles Contact, publication, and social network information about Harvard faculty and fellows. Home About Overview Open Source Software Help History (1)Casiglia, JeffreySee All Pages Find PeopleFind Everything Login to edit your profile (add a photo, awards, links to other websites, etc.) Edit My Profile My Person List (0) Return to Top Jeffrey Michael Casiglia, D.M.Sc., D.M.D. TitleLecturer on Oral Medicine, Infection, and Immunity, Part-timeInstitutionHarvard School of Dental MedicineDepartmentOral Med - Infection + ImmunityAddress398 Essex St.Salem MA 01970EmailvCardDownload vCard (login for email) selected publications| Bibliographicselected publications Publications listed below are automatically derived from MEDLINE/PubMed and other sources, which might result in incorrect or missing publications. Faculty can login to make corrections and additions. Newest | Oldest | Most Cited | Most Discussed | Timeline | Field Summary | Plain Text PMC Citations indicate the number of times the publication was cited by articles in PubMed Central, and the Altmetric score represents citations in news articles and social media. (Note that publications are often cited in additional ways that are not shown here.) Fields are based on how the National Library of Medicine (NLM) classifies the publication's journal and might not represent the specific topic of the publication. Translation tags are based on the publication type and the MeSH terms NLM assigns to the publication. Some publications (especially newer ones and publications not in PubMed) might not yet be assigned Field or Translation tags.) Click a Field or Translation tag to filter the publications. Migliorati CA, Casiglia J, Epstein J, Jacobsen PL, Siegel MA, Woo SB. Managing the care of patients with bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis: an American Academy of Oral Medicine position paper. J Am Dent Assoc. 2005 Dec; 136(12):1658-68. PMID: 16383047. Citations: 63Fields:Den DentistryTranslation:Humans Casiglia J, Woo SB. Oral hairy leukoplakia as an early indicator of Epstein-Barr virus-associated post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2002 Aug; 60(8):948-50. PMID: 12149746. Citations: Fields:Den DentistryGen General SurgeryTranslation:Humans Casiglia JM. Recurrent aphthous stomatitis: etiology, diagnosis, and treatment. Gen Dent. 2002 Mar-Apr; 50(2):157-66. PMID: 12004710. Citations: 8Fields:Den DentistryTranslation:Humans Casiglia J, Woo SB, Ahmed AR. Oral involvement in autoimmune blistering diseases. Clin Dermatol. 2001 Nov-Dec; 19(6):737-41. PMID: 11705683. Citations: 2Fields:Der DermatologyTranslation:Humans Casiglia J, Woo SB. A comprehensive review of oral cancer. Gen Dent. 2001 Jan-Feb; 49(1):72-82. PMID: 12004680. Citations: 36Fields:Den DentistryTranslation:HumansAnimalsPHPublic Health This graph shows the total number of publications by year. To see the data as text, click here. This graph shows the total number of publications by year. To return to the graph, click here. YearPublications200122002220051 This graph shows the number and percent of publications by field. Fields are based on how the National Library of Medicine (NLM) classifies the publications' journals and might not represent the specific topics of the publications. Note that an individual publication can be assigned to more than one field. As a result, the publication counts in this graph might add up to more than the number of publications the person has written. To see the data as text, click here. This graph shows the number and percent of publications by field. Fields are based on how the National Library of Medicine (NLM) classifies the publications' journals and might not represent the specific topics of the publications. Note that an individual publication can be assigned to more than one field. As a result, the publication counts in this graph might add up to more than the number of publications the person has written. To see the data as text, click here. Start with: newest oldest Include: line numbers double spacing all authors publication IDs Local representatives can answer questions about the Profiles website or help with editing a profile or issues with profile data. For assistance with this profile: HMS/HSDM faculty should contact contactcatalyst.harvard.edu. For faculty or fellow appointment updates and changes, please ask your appointing department to contact HMS. For fellow personal and demographic information, contact HMS Human Resources at human_resourceshms.harvard.edu. For faculty personal and demographic information, contact HMS Office for Faculty Affairs at facappthms.harvard.edu. Casiglia's Networks Click the Explore buttons for more information and interactive visualizations! Concepts (61) Derived automatically from this person's publications. Mouth Diseases Skin Diseases, Vesiculobullous Stomatitis, Aphthous Leukoplakia, Hairy Tongue Diseases Explore _ Co-Authors (1) People in Profiles who have published with this person. Woo, Sook-Bin Explore _ Similar People (60) People who share similar concepts with this person. Mehra, Mandeep Woo, Sook-Bin Treister, Nathaniel Boffetta, Paolo Villa, Alessandro Explore _ Same Department People in same department with this person. Giannobile, William Kashtwari, Deeba Noonan, Vikki Vacharotayangul, Piamkamon Woo, Sook-Bin Explore _ 2021 President and Fellows of Harvard College Accessibility Contact Funded by the NIH National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences through its Clinical and Translational Science Awards Program, grant number UL1TR002541.
