Harris, Albert K. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Harris, Albert K. Harris, Albert K. May 3, 2011 Harris, Albert K. Professor akharris@bio.unc.edu 103 Wilson Hall Selected References | Courses | Research Albert Harris is an embryologist interested in the amoeboid locomotion of the bodys component cells, and the ways in which cell movements generate anatomical patterns. He invented and developed the elastic substratum method, by which he (followed by later researchers) used silicone rubber and various gels embedded with particles to measure and map locations, strengths and directions of cell traction forces at the micrometer level. He also co-discovered focal adhesions, retrograde surface transport, that ruffling is upfolding, that sponges crawl, that sponge cells continually rearrange even without dissociation, and has collaborated on mathematical and computer simulation studies of cell migration and cell division. Videos from this research are posted under research above. His graduate students have worked on diverse topics ranging from the special adhesive properties of macrophages, the generation of tendons by cellular forces, the locomotion of sponges, cellular responses to electric fields, and the effects of tumor promoters on cell contractility. He was raised in Durham and Wrightsville Beach NC., and in Norfolk, VA., and for a long time was the one and only graduate of The Norfolk Academy ever to attend Swarthmore College. He did his PhD. with J. P. Trinkaus at Yale, and was a Post-Doctoral Fellow of the Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation at Cambridge (England) working under Michael Abercrombie, FRS. He is the son of Kenneth Harris, the prominent artist, author and spearhead of the Civil Rights Movement in Tidewater, Virginia. His family were plaintiffs in the (1958-9) Federal and State court cases that forced the racial integration of the Virginia Public Schools. His wife Elizabeth Holder Harris has been a leader in molecular genetics research on chloroplasts and the alga Chlamydomonas. They have three children, one of whom also has a PhD in Biological Research, and another of whom is a teacher. His special interests are whitewater canoeing, turtles and computer programming. translation of this page into Byelorussian translation of this page into German translation of this page into Polish translation of this page into Latvian translation of this page into Ukranian translation of this page into Indonesian translation of this page into Russian MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
