Barry, Edward G. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Barry, Edward G. Barry, Edward G. May 30, 2019 Barry, Edward G. Professor (Emeritus) 439 Wilson Hall (919) 962-6933 (office) My research involves mostly studies of chromosome rearrangements and, to a lesser degree, the investigation of sensitives, resistants, and killers of the Spore killer phenotype obtained in wild-collected Neurospora species. The cytogenetic investigations make use of particular rearrangements to study the activities of genes by making duplications or deficiencies or new orders of genes on the chromosomes. The Spore killer studies show that although the main effect of the killer activity is a meiotic drive mechanism that functions during meiosis (B. Turner and D. Perkins research studies) there is also a somatic or vegetative reaction that appears to indicate, at this stage of the studies, that the sensitive nuclei will eliminate the killer nuclei in a contest in heterokaryons composed of the two types. Figure 1. Chromosomal rearrangement involved in the spore-killer phenotype of Neurospora. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
