Searles, Lillie L. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Searles, Lillie L. Searles, Lillie L. May 17, 2011 Searles, Lillie L. Professor Emeritus lsearles@email.unc.edu 508 Fordham Hall (919) 966-4989 (office) In eukaryotes, regulated RNA degradation is important for numerous processes, such as the modulation of gene expression, quality control during mRNA synthesis, and defense against RNA viruses. Since RNA degradation enzymes are ubiquitous, this process must be carefully controlled so that only the appropriate targets are recognized and degraded. Much remains to be learned about how this control is achieved, especially in multi-cellular organisms. We have obtained evidence that Suppressor of sable protein [Su(s)] of Drosophila participates in nuclear RNA quality control. Su(s) is an RNA binding protein that associates with genes as they are being transcribed and inhibits the accumulation of specific aberrant transcriptsmutant alleles with transposon insertions that affect splicing; heat-shock inducible RNAs produced from tandemly-repeated transposons in the vicinity of a heat shock locus; and cryptic transcripts produced from a wild-type gene at an inappropriate time, when neighboring genes are being expressed. Other results indicate that Su(s) promotes degradation of these RNAs by the nuclear exosome. Currently, we are further investigating the mechanism involved. There are at least two different RNA quality control systems in the nucleus, and one of our goals is to determine if Su(s) functions in one of the known pathways or some other process. In addition, we are working to define the RNA sequences that are bound by Su(s) and to determine if these sites are enriched in a particular region of RNAs, e.g. coding versus noncoding sequences. Our approach to these questions is multifaceted in that we use genetic, biochemical, molecular, cell biological and genomic methods. The results of this research will provide new insights into nuclear RNA degradation mechanisms in multi-cellular organisms and help to clarify how defective RNAs are identified by the nuclear quality control machinery. The presence of multiple RNA quality control systems and the high degree of similarity in the general components of these systems indicate that this is a vitally important process for most, if not all, eukaryotic organisms. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
