Stafford, Darrel W. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Stafford, Darrel W. Stafford, Darrel W. May 20, 2011 Stafford, Darrel W. Professor dws@email.unc.edu 442 Wilson Hall (919) 962-0597 (office) My laboratory interests are in the broad area of molecular biology. Before the advent of molecular cloning we successfully isolated a pure gene from sea urchins (the ribosomal rRNA gene). We also purified to near homogeneity a gene for one of the sea urchin histones prior to cloning. A paper by Bob Simpson and myself was the first to demonstrate nucleosome phasing. My major interest at present is the study of protein-protein interactions. At present, we are investigating interactions of the blood coagulation proteins in coagulation and in the control of the pathways of coagulation. Our approach is to use molecular modeling to suggest mutations and to do in vitro mutagenesis to express the proteins and characterize their interactions. We recently purified the g-glutamyl carboxylase from bovine liver and have now cloned its cDNA. This opens a new avenue of research for us and others. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
