Duronio, Robert J. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Duronio, Robert J. Duronio, Robert J. May 25, 2011 Duronio, Robert J. Professor Director of the Integrative Program for Biological and Genome Sciences Affiliations: Department of Genetics; Curriculum in Genetics & Molecular Biology; Director, Integrative Program for Biological and Genome Sciences (iBGS) duronio@med.unc.edu 3350 Genome Sciences Building (919) 962-4568 (office) Lab Website Drosophila embryonic cells (purple) undergoing mitosis (green). At a Glance Epigenetic control of genome structure and function Cell cycle-regulated gene expression Developmental genetics Synopsis Our research focuses on understanding the molecular mechanisms that regulate DNA replication and cell proliferation during animal development. An orderly process of events called the cell cycle, which in its most familiar form consists of four phases (G1-S-G2-M) controls cell proliferation. The genome is replicated during the S or synthesis phase and duplicated chromosomes are segregated to daughter cells during the M or mitotic phase when cell division occurs. G1 and G2 are gap phases during cells regulate the entry into S phase and M phase, respectively. We study gene expression events that control how cells make the decision to enter S phase and proliferate, or to exit the cell cycle and differentiate. Without such control there would be no coordination betweencell proliferation and the development and function of the many different types of tissues that make up an organism. In addition, the breakdown of cell cycle regulation is one of the events that contribute to the generation of cancer. The E2F transcription factor is active (green) during S phase (red) in the asynchronous endocycles of the Drosophila salivary gland. We study this problem using the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, in part because the genes controlling cell proliferation in fruit flies have been highly conserved during evolution and function the same way as in other animals, including humans. This allows us to exploit certain advantages that Drosophila has as a research tool, including the ease with which genetics (making and analyzing mutants) and cell biology (using microscopy to In situ hybridization for histone gene expression in a Drosophila embryo. observe cell proliferation) can be applied to the study of gene function in the context of a whole animal. Some of the cell cycle regulatory pathways that we study become defective in virtually every human cancer. Thus, one hope is that understanding how these pathways function in normal Drosophila development will give us clues to how they might malfunction in the deregulated growth typical of cancer. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
