Copenhaver, Gregory P. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Copenhaver, Gregory P. Copenhaver, Gregory P. May 3, 2011 Copenhaver, Gregory P. Professor Sr. Associate Dean of Research & Innovations Affiliations: Carolina Center for Genome Sciences; Curriculum in Molecular Biology & Genetics gcopenhaver@bio.unc.edu 4161 Genome Sciences Building Lab Website The genome of any organism is an amazing piece of biology. It is a highly efficient and adaptive information storage, delivery and retrieval device capable of propagating, modifying and repairing itself. As such, understanding how genomes function is central to a broad range of disciplines including genetics, cell biology, biochemistry, developmental biology, and evolution. At the broadest level our lab is interested in understanding how the constituent parts of a genome, chromosomes, function and the dynamic processes that influence them. To achieve this goal we primarily use the model flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Arabidopsis has a number of characteristics that make it a great organism to study fundamental biological principles. It has a small completely sequenced genome with only five chromosomes. It is readily amenable to genetic, cytological and biochemical experimental approaches and its near world-wide distribution makes the use of natural variation a powerful tool. Also, here in the biology department at UNC-CH there is a particular emphasis on the use of Arabidopsis as a model system. My lab is primarily interested in understanding how meiotic recombination is regulated at the genomic level in higher eukaryotes. While significant progress has been made in understanding many of the molecular components of the recombination process in lower eukaryotes like the yeast S. cerevisiae, far less is known about similar functions in complex multi-cellular organisms. Because of the complexity of higher eukaryotic genomes, the high level of gene duplication and divergence, the presence of DNA modification and the organization of multiple chromosomal domains into heterochromatin the molecules that govern meiotic recombination in these organisms are likely to be novel and of significant biological interest. Additionally, their identification may have practical benefits, contributing to our understanding of human disease genes and providing useful tools for agricultural bioengineering. A second research area in the lab is investigating the role of centromere DNA in chromosome biology. Centromeres are the chromosomal domains that direct segregation during cell division by mediating a number of critical functions including: attachment of the chromosomes to the spindle microtubules, nucleation of kinetochore proteins, and maintenance of sister chromatid cohesion. Arabidopsis centromeres are some of the best characterized among higher eukaryotes. Currently the efforts in the lab are focused on obtaining a complete definition of the DNA within the genetically defined centromeres of Arabidopsis. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
