Bautch, Victoria L. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Bautch, Victoria L. Bautch, Victoria L. April 13, 2011 Bautch, Victoria L. Beverly Long Chapin Distinguished Professor Affiliations: Program in Molecular Biology & Biotechnology bautch@med.unc.edu 415 Fordham Hall (919) 966-6797 (office) Lab Website We study the growth and interactions of cells in their natural environment the animal and how these interactions are modified in disease. We focus on the mechanisms that control the process of blood vessel formation, which is crucial to successful development and required in cancer and other diseases. There are currently several areas of investigation that utilize genetically altered mice and cells derived from those mice. We developed a cell culture model of developmental blood vessel formation to study cross-talk between cellular processes such as cell division and sprouting migration to expand vessel networks. Mouse embryonic stem cells are induced to differentiate in dishes to form structures that contain some embryonic tissues, including primitive blood vessels. We have incorporated GFP reporter genes to visualize the dynamic processes of blood vessel formation via time-lapse imaging, and we have used both genetic manipulation and inhibitors to dissect the role of an important signaling pathway (VEGF) in these processes. We study the role of a novel gene that activates cellular homologs of oncogenes (ie Ras) in the proper function of blood vessels. We showed that while this gene is not required for development, it is required for the response of vessels to phorbol esters, which are tumor promoters. This suggests that the signaling pathway using this gene is important in diseases such as diabetes and cancer, and we are testing these models. We investigate how blood vessels know where to go as they form, by using chimeric embryos that consist of a host bird embryo with inserted mouse tissue. This technique allows us to determine the migration patterns of blood vessels over time during fetal development, and we can genetically manipulate the mouse tissue. We can also introduce exogenous DNA into the host via electroporation of the embryos. This analysis has thus far uncovered a crucial role for VEGF in the patterning of vessels around the neural tube, which will form the brain and spinal cord. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
