Salmon, Edward D. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Salmon, Edward D. Salmon, Edward D. May 17, 2011 Salmon, Edward D. Research Professor (Retired James Larkin and Iona Mae Ballou Distinguished Professor) tsalmon@email.unc.edu 608 Fordham Hall (919) 962-2265 (office) Lab Website Ted Salmon is a Cell Biologist and Biophysicist whose primary research is directed towards understanding the molecular mechanisms governing the assembly of spindle microtubules and the segregation of chromosomes during mitosis. Our working hypothesis is that mitosis will be explained by the molecular and structural properties of the centrosome which organizes and nucleates the polymerization of spindle microtubules, the assembly of microtubules which orient and participate in the generation of chromosome movements, and the microtubule motors such as the kinesin and dynein families of proteins which appear to generate polarized forces along the lattice of microtubules, at kinetochores, and within the spindle fibers. The laboratory has pioneered the development of video and digital imaging microscopy methods for analysis of molecular and structural dynamics in living cells and in vitro. We have developed fluorescently labeled tubulins to serve as tracers in studies of the dynamic pathways for microtubule assembly in vivo and in vitro using low light level fluorescence microscopy and digital image processing techniques. We have also developed high resolution video microscopy methods for visualizing the polymerization of individual microtubules and the motility of motors in living cells and reconstituted preparations. These functional assays provide the basis for determination of the basic mechanisms of microtubule polymerization and motor function, analysis of kinetochore motility, and the means of eventually achieving reconstitution of chromosome segregation in reconstituted preparations in vitro. There is also an interest in the lab in how hydrostatic pressure alters the assembly and function of the cytoskeleton and how organisms have adapted to the effects of deep sea pressures. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
