MIT NSE: Faculty: Koroush Shirvan Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Koroush Shirvan John Clark Hardwick (1986) Career Development Professor kshirvan@mit.edu 617-452-3017 24-215A Website Bio Koroush Shirvan joined the faculty in the Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering in July, 2017. Previously, he was a principal research scientist at Center for Advanced Nuclear Energy Systems (CANES). He specializes in development and assessment of advanced nuclear reactor technology. He is currently focused on accelerating innovations in nuclear fuels, reactor design and small modular reactors to improve the sustainability of current and next generation power plants. His approach combines multiple scales, physics and disciplines to realize innovative solutions in the highly regulated nuclear energy sector. He is also the Co-Director of Nuclear Reactor Technology course for utility executives. Education Ph.D. Nuclear Science and Engineering, 2012 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts Masters of Science in Nuclear Science and Engineering, 2010 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts Bachelor of Science in Nuclear Engineering, 2008 University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida download CV Research Development of Advanced Fuels The work focuses on identification of failure modes to support development of advanced fuels including concepts under consideration by the Accident Tolerant Fuel (ATF) program. All of fuel concepts involve some changes to the conventional fuel that is made of UO2 pellets and Zircaloy cladding. Any type of change to the current fuel system is more costly from the point of view of manufacturing and initial regulatory burden. Thus a multi-disciplinary approach is taken in realizing feasible technology solutions. Current concepts under investigation includes: Coated Zircaloy Cladding (Zr/Cr), Metal Composite Cladding (Zr/Mo/Cr), Ceramic Composite Cladding (SiC), Coated Ceramic Composite Cladding (SiC/Cr), High Density Fuels (UN) and Direct Manufactured Fuels. The research focuses on both in-pile and out-of-pile testing of fuel concepts in extreme environments. The development of mechanistic thermal-hydraulics and structural mechanics models using high fidelity modeling and simulation guides the R&D process and evaluates the value proposition of each fuel concept. Small Modular Reactor Optimization Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) provide a path for accelerated deployment of nuclear energy given their smaller power output. However, many leading concepts such as Nuscale are designed with low plant power density and unable to be modular deployed from the site construction point-of-view. This will likely translate to the same slow deployment process as large reactors. The research work focuses on optimizing plant layout and performance that can result in shortest construction schedule and cheapest operation cost The work also investigates and introduces innovations (such as compact heat exchangers, seismic isolation, advanced I&C) to design an SMR for the 21st century market requirements. The neutronics, thermal hydraulics/CFD, fuel performance and economics analysis are key components of this research. Advanced Data Analytics Opportunities in advanced data analytics are currently being explored with the growing need to do more with less data, advent of high performance computing and infiltration of machine learning for nuclear engineering applications. Current research focuses on advanced uncertainty quantification techniques for licensing application, use of physics-informed machine learning for model closures and reinforced learning for core design optimization. The research approach focuses on addressing applicability concerns of advanced data analytics from the regulatory point of view for adoption in the nuclear engineering disciplines. Publications Recent Publications Radaideh M., Wolverton I., Joseph J., Tusar J., Otgonbaatar U., Roy N., Forget B.,Shirvan K., Physics-informed reinforcement learning optimization of nuclear assembly design, Nuclear Engineering and Design, 110966, Vol. 372, Feb 2021, 110966. Seshadri A., Forrest E.C.,ShirvanK., Why ionizing radiation enhances surface wettability, Applied Surface Science, Vol. 514, 145935, June 2020. Shirvan K., Implications of accident tolerant fuels on thermal-hydraulic researchNuclear Engineering and Design, Vol 358, March 2020. X. Zhao, R.K. Salko, K.Shirvan, Improved departure from nucleate boiling prediction in rod bundles using a physics-informed machine learning-aided framework, Nuclear Engineering and Design, Vol.374, April 2021, 111084. Li W.,ShirvanK., Pegna J., Harrison S., Innovative accident tolerant fuel concept enabled through direct manufacturing technology, Applied Energy, Vol. 264, 114742 April 2020. Wagih, M., Spencer, B., Hales, J.,Shirvan, K.,Fuel performance of chromium-coated zirconium alloy and silicon carbide accident tolerant fuel claddings,Annals of Nuclear Energy, Vol 120, pp. 304-318, 2018. He Y.,ShirvanK., Wu, Y., Su, G.Preliminary prediction for survival time of fuel rod under critical heat flux,Annals of Nuclear Energy, Vol. 151, 107896, Feb. 2021. Deng, Y.,Shirvan, K., Wu, Y., Su, G. Utilization of 3D fuel modeling capability of BISON to derive new insights in performance of advanced PWR fuel concepts,Journal of Nuclear Materials, Vol 516, pp. 271-288, 2019. Shirvan K., Ballinger R,, Buongiorno J., Forsberg C., Kazimi M., Todreas N., Technology Selection for Offshore Underwater Small Modular Reactors,Journal of Nuclear Engineering and Technology(Available Online), June, 2016. Shirvan K., Hejzlar P., and Kazimi M.S., The Design of A Compact Integral Medium Size PWR,Nuclear Engineering and Designvol. 243, pp. 393-403, Feb 2012. News Recent News Want cheaper nuclear energy? Turn the design process into a game Shirvan, Fortum collaborate on techno-economic modelling tool A layered approach to safety Making nuclear energy cost-competitive Developing accident-tolerant fuel, optimizing nuclear energy technology MIT research teams win 2015 Department of Energy NEUP awards FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
