MIT NSE: Faculty : Zachary Hartwig Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Zachary Hartwig Robert N. Noyce Career Development Assistant Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering hartwig@mit.edu +1-617-253-5471 NW17-213 Plasma Science and Fusion Center CSTAR: Center for Science and Technology with Accelerators and Radiation Bio Zachary (Zach) Hartwig is an Assistant Professor in the MITDepartment of Nuclear Science and Engineering(NSE) and with a co-appointment at the MIT Plasma Science and Fusion Center (PSFC). He has primarily worked in the areas of magnetic fusion device design, superconducting magnet engineering, fusion materials, and plasma-material interactions as well as contributing to nuclear security, radiation detector development, Monte Carlo particle transport simulations, and accelerator science and engineering. His active research focuses primarily on the development of high-field superconducting magnets for fusion energy, accelerated irradiation methods for fusion materials, and fusion engineering technologies. He is presently the Principal Investigator and Project Head of theSPARCToroidal Field Model Coil Project, a 3-year effort to build and test the first large-scale, high-field, fusion-relevant high temperature superconductor magnet in 2021. He is a co-founder ofCommonwealth Fusion Systems(CFS), a private company commercializing fusion energy. He oversees the NSE PhDqualification exam process, is a member of the MIT Radiation Protection Committee, and serves as an MIT First Year Advisor. He received his PhDfrom MIT NSE in 2013 for developing a new generation of particle accelerator-based diagnostics to study plasma-material interactions in fusion devices and received his B.A. in Physics from Boston University in 2005. Research Intermediate energy proton irradiation of materials Proton beams between 10 and 30 MeV offer a rapid, high fidelity approach to quantifying the evolution of engineering material properties in response to fusion-relevant radiation conditions. The proton energy provides the capability to tune the material response to match the application of interest while the uniform irradiation depth of protons in this energy range is several hundred microns or more, enabling bulk irradiation of macroscopic samples suitable for direct engineering property characterization such as tensile testing. Other advantages include high dose rates for rapid testing, low residual activation to simplify post-irradiation experiments, transmutation to produce bulk helium or radiation-induced precipitates. High-field superconducting magnet technology Recent advances in the performance and industrial production of high-temperature superconductors particularly Rare Earth Barium Copper Oxide, or ReBCO are enabling a new generation of large-scale superconducting magnets producing magnetic fields well in excess of 20 tesla for applications such as fusion energy, particle accelerators, and other industrial applications. Active research in this area is focused on demonstrating 50 to 100 kA class HTS conductors for large-scale magnets, qualifying novel quench detection technologies, developing defect-tolerant HTS conductors and magnets, quantifying progress evolution under irradiation, and building and testing the 20 tesla, 10 ton SPARC Toroidal Field Model Coil.Publications Recent Publications S.J. Jepeal, L. Snead, Z.S. Hartwig.Accelerated, high fidelity testing of fusion and fission reactor materials: opportunities and limitations of intermediate-energy proton irradiation,Materials and Design200 (2021) 109445. S.J. Jepeal, ..., Z.S. Hartwig.An accelerator facility for intermediate energy proton irradiation and testing of nuclear materials,Nucl. Instr. and Meth. B 489 (2021) 41. Z.S. Hartwig et al.VIPER: An industrially mature high-current high temperature superconductor cable,Sup. Sci. and Techn.33 (2020) 11LT01 E. Salazar, ..., Z.S. Hartwig,High fidelity demonstration of fiber optic quench detection techniques for high temperature superconductor magnets,Sup. Sci. and Techn,34(2021) 035027. A. Molodyk, ..., Z.S. Hartwig,...,Development and large volume production of extremely high current density Y Ba 2 Cu 3 O 7 superconducting wires for fusion.Scientific Reports(2021) 11:2084. N. Strickland, ..., Z.S. Hartwig, ..., Extended-performance SuperCurrent cryogen-free transport critical- current measurement system, Accepted Manuscript inIEEE Trans. App. Supercon, 2021.https://doi.org/10.1109/TASC.2021.3060355 M. Pham, L.A. Kesler, K.B. Woller, Z.S. Hartwig.Gamma Ray Production Cross Sections of Proton Bombardment of Fluorine for Light Element Analysis and Depth Profiling,499(2021) 118 Teaching Active Teaching (20212022) 22.033: Nuclear Systems Design Project 22.061: Fusion Energy Past Teaching 22.011: Hands on Introduction to Nuclear Science And Engineering 22.814: Nuclear Weapons and Nuclear Security News Recent News Can nuclear fusion put the brakes on climate change? MIT-designed project achieves major advance toward fusion energy New fiber optic temperature sensing approach to keep fusion power plants running Superconductor technology for smaller, sooner fusion Pitching transformative design 3Q: Zach Hartwig on MIT's big push on fusion MIT and newly formed company launch novel approach to fusion power Bringing design thinking into nuclear science and engineering Applying diverse skills in pursuit of a fusion breakthrough FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
