MIT NSE: Faculty: Kord Smith Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Kord Smith Emeritus Professor of the Practice of Nuclear Science and Engineering Chief Scientist: DOEs Office of Science, Center for Exascale Simulation of Advanced Reactors kord@mit.edu website Bio Education B.S., Nuclear Engineering, Kansas State University 1976 M.S. and N.E., Nuclear Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1979 PhD., Nuclear Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1980 Awards American Nuclear Society (ANS) Eugene P. Wigner Reactor Physicist Award 2015 Fellow of the American Nuclear Society (ANS) 2010 ANS Young Member Engineering Achievement Award 1986 Research Research Interests Development and application of computational physics methods for modeling and simulation of nuclear reactor cores: reactor physics analysis methods, fuel/core loading design and optimization, transient safety analysis, real-time operator training, and on-line plant monitoring. Reactor Analysis Methods Modern computing has made possible vast improvements in physics models used for reactor analysis, and many approximations in current-generation tools are being systematically improved or eliminated. Significant verification and validation (V&V) challenges are being addressed as new methods are prepared for deployment in production tools. Our group is engaged in an effort to use data from operating LWRs for qualification of new methods. As data is analyzed, open-literature benchmarks are being prepared for use in V&V efforts within the broader nuclear industry. Students have opportunities to develop not only improved analysis methods, but also new techniques for V&V. Students also help support nuclear utilities and fuel vendors by solving practical reactor analysis problems. Computational Methods The implementation of reactor physics methods into efficient simulation tools requires effective computational methods and numerical algorithms. Students are engaged in extending a class of non-linear acceleration techniques recently developed for deterministic applications (physics-based multi-grid methods) to stochastic Monte Carlo neutral particle transport. Multi-physics coupling of neutron transport, fluid flow, and fuel modeling with Krylov solvers is being pursued for large-scale reactor simulations. These methods hold promise for not only providing efficient acceleration for Monte Carlo calculations, but also for extending Monte Carlo applications to the time domain. High Performance Computing (HPC)s As DOEs Office of Science pushes the frontiers of advanced computing to the Exascale (1018 FLOPS), significant challenges are being encounter in the design and utilization of these massively-parallel machines - which will have hundreds of millions or billions of compute cores. DOE is sponsoring three interdisciplinary co-design centers that are tasked with simultaneously designing hardware and software for deployment on machines in 2019. Our group is an integral part of one center, CESAR, the ANL-led Center for Exascale Simulation of Advanced Reactors, working together with industrial partner IBM. Fundamental research on basic reactor modeling methods, massively-parallel algorithms, software architecture, and computer hardware design are underway. CESAR provides unique opportunities for students to be involved in large interdisciplinary HPC projects, and students will be exploring parallel communication bottlenecks, developing new algorithmic approaches, and testing large-scale GPGPU utilizations. Publications Recent Publications A. Siegel, K. Smith, P. Fischer, V. Mahadevan, Analysis of Communication Costs for Domain Decomposed Monte Carlo Methods in Nuclear Reactor Analysis, submitted for publication to the Journal of Computational Physics, July, 2011. K. Smith, et al., Experimental Benchmarks for Quantifying Fuel Reactivity Depletion Uncertainty, 9th International Conference on Nuclear Criticality Safety, Edinburgh, Scotland, September, 2011. D.A. Knoll, H. Park, K. Smith, Application of the Jacobian-Free Newton-Krylov Method in Nonlinear Transport Acceleration, Nuclear Science and Engineering, Vol. 87, p 122-132, February, 2011. D. J. Lee, K. Smith, and J. Rhodes, The Impact of 238U Resonance Elastic Scattering Approximations on Thermal Reactor Doppler Reactivity, Annals of Nuclear Energy, p 274-280, January 2009. K. Smith, Full-Core, 2-D LWR Core Calculations with CASMO-4E, Proceedings of the PHYSOR 2002 International Conference on the New Frontiers of Nuclear Technology Reactor Physics, Safety and High-Performance Computing, Seoul, Korea, October 7-10, 2002. K. Smith, S3K: Enhancements and Application to Boiling Water Reactor Transients, Transactions of the American Nuclear Society Summer Meeting , Vol. 84, p 64, Milwaukee, WI, June 17-21, 2001. D. Kropaczek and K. Smith, A Fully-Implicit, Five Equation Channel Hydraulics Model for SIMULATE-3K, Proceedings of the 1997 Joint International Conference on Mathematical Methods and Supercomputing for Nuclear Applications, Vol. 2, p 1401, Saratoga Springs, NY, October 6-10, 1997. Teaching 22.251: Nuclear Fuel Cycle 22.211: Nuclear Reactor Physics I 22.212: Nuclear Reactor Analysis II News Recent News Smith wins 2015 ANS Wigner Reactor Physicist Award Kord Smith is committed to caring MIT research teams win 2015 Department of Energy NEUP awards Three MIT-led research teams win 2014 Department of Energy NEUP awards New NSE Faculty Drive Curriculum Expansion Into Computational Science and Engineering Research profile Kord Smith brings 30 years of simulation insight to NSE FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
