MIT NSE: Faculty: Paola Cappellaro Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Paola Cappellaro KEPCO Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering and Professor of Physics pcappell@mit.edu 617-253-8137 26-303 Quantum Engineering Group RLE iQuISE CUA QUISM Bio Education Ph.D., Nuclear Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2006 M.S., Applied Physics, cole Centrale Paris, 2000 B.S/M.S., Nuclear Engineering, Politecnico di Milano, 2000 Awards Committed to Caring, 2020 Esther and Harold E. Edgerton Career Development Professorship, 2013 Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) Young Investigator Award, 2012 PAI Outstanding Teacher Award, MIT student chapter of the American Nuclear Society, 2010 Graduate Teaching Award, MIT School of Engineering, 2005 Manson Benedict Fellowship, MIT Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering, 2004 Research Quantum Engineering The development of new technologies at scales approaching the quantum regime is driving new theoretical and experimental research on control in quantum systems. The implementation of quantum control would have an enormous impact on a wide range of fields such as chemistry, nuclear magnetic resonance, microelectronics, and precision metrology. Quantum control finds an ideal application in quantum information processing (QIP), which promises to radically improve the acquisition, transmission, and processing of information. To reach this goal it is necessary to improve both the experimental techniques and the coherent control theory of quantum bits (qubits), as well as to gain a deeper knowledge of the mechanisms of decoherence, which must be studied and fought against. Below are some projects that my group is working on. Control of quantum registers with NV centers in diamond The Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) center has recently emerged as a versatile tool for magnetic resonance,quantum optics, precision measurement and quantum information processing. The NV center is a localized impurity in diamond, consisting of a nitrogen substitutional atom close to a vacancy.Single NV centers are addressed using optical scanningconfocal microscopy and can be efficiently prepared, manipulated and measured with optical and microwave excitation, even at room temperature. The system comprising the NV electronic spin and close-by nuclear spins (N and 13C) is an excellent candidate for the implementation of small quantum registers capable of simple quantum algorithms with very high fidelities. These quantum registers can then in turn be connected via photon entanglement or direct dipole-dipole coupling. In this project, we will develop high-fidelity methods for controlling the electronic-nuclear spin system. Diamond magnetometer and precision metrology In recent years metrology and quantum information science have emerged as complementary areas of research. We aim at applying the principles of quantum information science to the development of nano-scale magnetic field sensors based on single spin qubits in diamond. We focus on improving the diamond magnetometer readout, enhancing its coherence, improving its spatial resolution and devising strategies to achieve sensitivity beyond the Heisenberg limit. Ideas and techniques from quantum information science are critical in achieving these goals, from quantum non-demolition measurement, to dynamical decoupling and spin squeezing. Quantum simulation and transport of quantum information A system composed of nuclear or electronic spins could play an important role -complementary to cold atoms and molecules- in the simulation of condensed matter systems. For example, well-known NMR pulse sequences can be used to experimentally simulate the transport of quantum information in room temperature linear chains of spins coupled by the dipolar interaction. The next step is to demonstrate transport of information between quantum registers via quantum wires in a highly mixed state. We will use solid-state NMR to study simulations and information transport in large spin systems. Patents "Electronic spin based enhancement of magnetometer sensitivity"; application 12/746,128; publication US 2010/0315079 A1; filed Dec 3, 2008; inventors: Mikhail Lukin, Ronald L. Walsworth, Amir Yacoby, Paola Cappellaro, Jake Taylor, Liang Jiang, Lillian Childress. Publications Recent Publications M. Chen, C. Li, G. Palumbo, Y.-Q. Zhu, N. Goldman and P. Cappellaro "Experimental characterization of the 4D tensor monopole and topological nodal rings" arXiv:2008.00596 (2020) [URL] [PDF] I. Rojkov, D. Layden, P. Cappellaro, J. Home and F. Reiter "Bias in error-corrected quantum sensing" arxiv:2101.05817 (2021) [URL] [PDF] P. Peng, C. Yin, X. Huang, C. Ramanathan and P. Cappellaro "Floquet prethermalization in dipolar spin chains" Nat. Phys. , s41567 (2021) [URL] [PDF] C. Li, T. Li, Y.-X. Liu and P. Cappellaro "Effective routing design for remote entanglement generation on quantum networks" npj Q. Inf. 7, 10 (2021) [URL] [PDF] G. Wang, Y.-X. Liu and P. Cappellaro "Observation of the high-order Mollow triplet by quantum mode control with concatenated continuous driving" Phys. Rev. A 103, 022415 (2021) [URL] [PDF] C. Yin, P. Peng, X. Huang, C. Ramanathan and P. Cappellaro "Prethermal quasiconserved observables in Floquet quantum systems" Phys. Rev. B 103, 054305 (2021) [URL] [PDF] G. Wang, Y.-X. Liu and P. Cappellaro "Coherence protection and decay mechanism in qubit ensembles under concatenated continuous driving" New J. Phys. 22, 123045 (2020) [URL] [PDF] A. Sone, Y.-X. Liu and P. Cappellaro "Quantum Jarzynski Equality in Open Quantum Systems from the One-Time Measurement Scheme" Phys. Rev. Lett. 125, 060602 (2020) [URL] [PDF] S. Hernndez-Gmez, S. Gherardini, F. Poggiali, F. S. Cataliotti, A. Trombettoni, P. Cappellaro and N. Fabbri "Experimental test of exchange fluctuation relations in an open quantum system" Phys. Rev. Research 2, 023327 (2020) [URL] [PDF] Y.-X. Liu, J. Hines, Z. Li, A. Ajoy and P. Cappellaro "High-fidelity Trotter formulas for digital quantum simulation" Phys. Rev. A 102, 010601 (2020) [URL] [PDF] Full list of publications Teaching 22.51 Quantum Technology and Devices 22.02 Introduction to Applied Nuclear Physics News Quantum leaps on the horizon Achieving advisory equilibrium Novel method for easier scaling of quantum devices Correcting the jitters in quantum devices Quantum sensing method measures minuscule magnetic fields Scientists gain new visibility into quantum information transfer High-res biomolecule imaging The tenured engineers of 2016 Stabilizing quantum bits Diamonds could help bring proteins into focus Doctoral students seek quantum control in Prof. Cappellaros Quantum Engineering Group Paola Cappellaros work with nanoscale diamonds unlocks secret codes NSEs Cappellaro and team develop new method to control nanoscale diamond sensors Cappellaro appointed as Edgerton Career Development Professor Paola Cappellaro wins AFOSR Young Investigator Award A Quantum Engineer on the Frontier of Knowledge FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
