Pamela P. Martinez | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Pamela P. Martinez pamelapm@illinois.edu Mail to: pamelapm@illinois.edu Assistant Professor of Microbiology Research Topics Computational Biology, Host-Pathogen Interactions Disease Research Interests Infectious Diseases In most pathogens, epidemiological and evolutionary processes occur on similar time scales due to the large population sizes and short generation times. This makes infectious diseases amenable to study and the interplay of their ecology and evolution particularly relevant for both fundamental biology and applied public health. However, temporal and spatial changes in infectious disease dynamics are difficult to anticipate due to the effects of environmental drivers on the transmission of pathogens and the complex diversity that these microorganisms exhibit. To address these challenges, my research on the ecology and evolution of infectious diseases focuses on the following general questions: (1) How do climatic and demographic factors shape the population dynamics of infectious diseases in space and time? and (2) How does pathogen diversity interact and interfere with public health interventions? For answering these questions, I use mathematical and computational tools that are applied to different types of time series data. Representative Publications Mena, G.E.*, Martinez, P.P.*, Mahmud, A., Marquet, P., Buckee, C. and Santillana, M., 2021. Socioeconomic status determines COVID-19 incidence and related mortality in Santiago, Chile. Science, DOI: 10.1126/science.abg5298 Smith, R.L., Gibson, L.L., Martinez, P.P., Ke, R., Mirza, A., Conte, M., ..., and Brooke, C. B., 2021. Longitudinal assessment of diagnostic test performance over the course of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection. medRxiv. Kishore, N.*, Kahn, R.*, Martinez, P.P., De Salazar, P.M., Mahmud, A.S., and Buckee, C. 2021. Lockdowns result in changes in human mobility which may impact the epidemiologic dynamics of SARS-CoV-2. Sci Rep 11, 6995. Rod, X., Martinez, P.P., Siraj, A., and Pascual, M., 2021. Malaria trends in Ethiopian highlands track the 2000 'slowdown' in global warming. Nature Communications, 12(1), pp.1-12. Azarian, T.*, Martinez, P.P.*, Arnold, B.J., Qiu, X., Grant, L.R., Corander, J., Fraser, C., Croucher, N.J., Hammitt, L.L., Reid, R. and Santosham, M., 2020. Frequency-dependent selection can forecast evolution in Streptococcus pneumoniae. PLoS biology, 18(10), p.e3000878. Mahmud, A.S., Martinez, P.P., He, J. and Baker, R.E., 2020. The Impact of Climate Change on Vaccine-Preventable Diseases: Insights From Current Research and New Directions. Current environmental health reports, pp.1-8 Martinez, P.P.*, Mahmud A.S.*, Yunus, M., Faruque, A.S.G., Ahmed T., Pascual, M., Buckee, C.O., 2019. Tube Well Use as Protection Against Rotavirus Infection During the Monsoons in an Urban Setting, The Journal of Infectious Diseases, jiz436. Martinez, P.P., King, A.A., Yunus, M., Faruque, A.S.G., Pascual, M., 2016. Differential and enhanced response to climate forcing in diarrheal disease due to rotavirus across a megacity of the developing world. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 113(15), pp.4092-4097. ** These authors contributed equally to this work School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
