George W Ordal | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine George W Ordal ordal@illinois.edu 407 Medical Sciences Building 506 S. Mathews Ave. Urbana, IL 61801 Office: (217) 333-9098 Lab: (217) 333-0268 Fax: (217) 333-8868 Mail to: Department of Biochemistry University of Illlinois 600 S Mathews Ave, B-4 M-C 712 Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry Professor Emeritus of Medical Biochemistry Education A.B. 1965 Harvard University Ph.D. 1970 Stanford University Postdoc. 1971-73 University of Wisconsin-Madison Investigation of the molecular basis of excitation and adaptation during chemotactic sensory transduction in bacteria Bacteria lead stressful lives; they are constantly starving and contending with competitors. However, they have developed a sophisticated locomotion to escape harm and find favorable conditions. This is the process of chemotaxis. It arose billions of years ago, long before eukaryotes existed, and handles signaling tasks common to all cell sensory systems: detecting stimuli, processing and integrating inputs, and producing appropriate responses. Ease of genetic manipulation and cloning and rapid growth have proven important advantages for studying sensory processes in prokaryotes and general insights into cellular signaling mechanisms are emerging. Bacteria pioneered the use of reversible protein phosphorylation to send an excitatory signal to alter motile behavior and the use of reversible receptor methylesterification to terminate the signal in the process of adaptation. The signal controls movement of the flagella. In our laboratory, we are studying how these receptors control protein phosphorylation and phosphoryl transfer in the gram positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis. They have been cloned and sequenced. Several proteins, in addition to the receptors, are also involved in this signal transduction process. We have cloned and manipulated the corresponding genes and are studying the interactions of the proteins. In addition there appear to be three adaptational systems at work to help extinguish the excitatory signal so that the bacteria are again poised to receive new information -- one involving the methyltransferase and methylesterase, another involving the novel proteins CheC and CheD in a feedback system with the response regulator CheY-P, and a third involving phosphorylation of CheV. This is a process that appears to be shared with the archaea, although not with Escherichia coli, where simple addition or hydrolysis of methyl groups on the receptors suffices for adaptation. Thus, it may be the means by which the primordial bacteria carried out chemotaxis. We are especially interested in characterizing three proteins -- CheC, CheD, and CheV -- which have no counterparts in E. coli, for they play important roles in this novel process. In general, having many of the genes cloned and selectively mutagenizing them has allowed us to get important insights into how the corresponding proteins are functioning. Representative Publications Yuan, W., G.D. Glekas, G Allen, H. Walukiewicz, C.V. Rao, and G.W. Ordal (2012). The importance of the interaction of CheD with CheC and the chemoreceptors compared to its enzymatic activity during chemotaxis in Bacillus subtilis PLOS ONE 7: e50689. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0050689. Glekas G.D., Mulhern B.J., Kroc A., Duelfer K.A., Lei V., Rao C.V., Ordal GW. (2012) The Bacillus subtilis chemoreceptor McpC senses multiple ligands using two discrete mechanisms J. Biol. Chem. 287:39412-39418. Wu K, H.E. Walukiewicz, G.D. Glekas, G.W. Ordal, C.V. Rao (2012) Attractant binding induces distinct structural changes to the polar and lateral signaling clusters in Bacillus subtilis chemotaxis. J Biol Chem. 286:2587-2595. Wu, K, H.E. Waikukeiwicz, G.D. Glekas, G.W. Ordal, and C.V. Rao (2011) Attractant binding induces distinct structural changes to the polar and lateral signaling clusters in Bacillus subtilis chemotaxis. J. Biol. Chem. 286: 2587-2595. Glekas, G.D., J.R. Cates, T.M. Cohen, C. V./ Rao, and G.W. Ordal (2010). Site-specific methylation in Bacillus subtilis chemotaxis: The effect of covalent modifications to the chemotaxis receptor McpB. Microbiology 157: 56-65. Glekas, G.D., R.M. Foster, J.R. Cates, J.A. Estrella, M.J. Wawrzyniak, C.V. Rao, and G.W. Ordal (2010). A PAS domain binds asparagine in the chemotaxis receptor McpB in Bacillus subtilis. J. Biol. Chem. 285: 1870-1878. Rao, C.V., G.D. Glekas, and G.W. Ordal (2008). The three adaptation systems of Bacillus subtilis chemotaxis. Trends Microbiol. 16: 480-487. Muff, T.J., and G.W. Ordal (2007) The CheC phosphatase regulates chemotactic adaptation through CheD. J. Biol. Chem. 282: 34120-34128. Chao, X., T.J. Muff, S.Y. Park, S. Zhang, A.M. Pollard, G.W. Ordal, A.M. Bilwes, and B.R. Crane. (2006) A receptory-modifying deamidase in complex with a signaling phosphatase reveals reciprocal regulation. Cell 124: 561-571. Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
