Graham Rowell Huesmann | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Graham Rowell Huesmann huesmann@illinois.edu Epileptologist/Neurologist, Carle Foundation Hospital Research Asst. Professor Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Affiliate College of Medicine Affiliate Neuroscience Program, Affiliate Beckman Institute Research Topics Drug Discovery, Enzymology, Imaging, Ion Channels, Membrane Biology, Neurobiology, Protein Dynamics, Signal Transduction Education B.S. 1993 University of Oregon Ph.D. 2005 University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Neuroscience Program M.D. 2007 University of Illinois College of medicine, Medical Scholars MD/PhD program at UIUC 1996 2005 Residency 2008 -2011 Neurology Residency, Partners Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Womens Hospital, Harvard Medical School. Fellowship 2011-2013 Epilepsy Fellowship, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School. Postdoc. 2010-2013 Postdoctoral research on caspase-3 regulation. Laboratory of Dr. Rudolph Tanzi. MIND institute, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital/ Harvard Medical School. The mechanisms and treatment of epileptogenesis in adult onset epilepsy and the overlap between epileptic encephalopathy and Alzheimers disease. My lab currently investigates mechanisms of both acquired and congenital adult onset epilepsy with both translational clinical studies and basic science. Caspase-3 has increased expression in epileptogenic tissue and is a potential target for pharmacologic intervention to limit epileptogensis and seizures. Caspase-3 has been shown to modulate amyloid precursor protein processing and amyloid protein is also highly expressed in the brain tissue of patients with epilepsy. Investigation into the overlaps between epileptic encephalopathy and Alzheimers disease may yield novel mechanisms and treatments for both conditions. As a non-lethal role for caspase-3 becomes better appreciated it may mean that activation of Caspase-3 may be a powerful novel mechanism to prevent seizures. Its high level of expression in both epileptic and Alzheimers brain tissue may reflect a defense mechanism rather then a pathology of the condition. As amyloid is known to require action potential activity for processing from precursor to amyloid beta and alpha, it is hypothesized that amyloid concentration in the cerebral spinal fluid could be used as a biomarker of seizure. Currently in medicine there are no biomarkers for seizure activity with a high enough sensitivity and specificity to be clinically dependable. As well, it may be the concentrations of the APP products are markers for epileptogenesis, with different ratios in a first time seizure compared to years of seizures. We are analyzing tissue samples from patients to address these questions. Another are of interest in the lab is in honing identification of seizure onset zones in patients with epilepsy who are potential surgical resection candidates. The most common surgical resection is temporal done for mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS). As MTS progresses it erodes a patients capacity for short term memory, a function that does not recover even with a successful surgery. Identifying patients early, before significant damage has been done by the seizures, for curative surgery is a goal of the epilepsy treatment community. Early curative surgery improves patients lives, ability to work, drive and have meaningful home lives. Current techniques are dependent on identifying the seizure onset zone only after significant pathology and injury have occurred. We are using a novel imaging technique, magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) along with neuro-psychological tasks to see if this new technique can identify the area of deficit earlier. School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
