Benjamin D Auerbach | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Benjamin D Auerbach bda5@illinois.edu 2041 Beckman Institute 405 N. Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Assistant Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Research Topics Learning and Memory, Neurobiology, Optogenetics, Sensory Processing Disease Research Interests Neurological and Behavioral Disorders Neural mechanisms underlying sensory processing and plasticity The brain has the remarkable ability to modify its connections and adapt its response properties based on prior experience. This experience-dependent plasticity greatly shapes our perception and behavior, is thought to be the physiological substrate of learning and memory, and is disrupted in a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders. My research uses the rodent auditory system as a tractable model for elucidating the biological mechanisms and behavioral consequences of experience-dependent modification in the brain. We use a multidimensional approach to address these questions, combing quantitative sensory behavior with high density in vivo electrophysiology, ex vivo biochemical and neuroanatomical analysis, as well optical imaging and manipulation of genetically-defined neuronal subtypes. Beyond the advancement of basic insight into brain function, the goal of this research is to identify pathophysiological mechanisms associated with neurodevelopmental and hearing disorders that often present with sound hypersensitivity particularly autism spectrum disorders and hyperacusis with the hope of translating our findings into novel therapies and treatment strategies. Awards 2019 Travel Award for Association for Research in Otolaryngology 2018-2019 NARSAD Young Investigator Award 2015, 2017 Bishops Award for Neuroscience, University at Buffalo 2016 Blavatnik Award for Young Scientists Regional Nominee, University at Buffalo 2015 Society for Neuroscience Trainee Professional Development Award 2011 International Tuberous Sclerosis Research Conference Travel Award 2004 Howard Hughes Medical Institute Undergraduate Research Program Scholarship Representative Publications Auerbach BD, Manohar S, Radziwon K, Salvi R (2021) Auditory Hypersensitivity and Processing Deficits in a Rat Model of Fragile X Syndrome.Neurobiol Dis. October 29;161:105541. Auerbach BD, Radziwon K, Salvi R (2019) Testing the Central Gain Model: Loudness Growth Correlates with Central Auditory Gain Enhancement in a Rodent Model of Hyperacusis.Neuroscience. May 21;407:93-107. Auerbach BD, Rodrigues PV, Salvi RJ. (2014) Central gain control in tinnitus and hyperacusis. Front Neurol. Oct 24;5:206. Auerbach BD, Osterweil EK, Bear MF (2011) Mutations causing syndromic autism define an axis of synaptic pathophysiology. Nature. Nov 23;480(7375):63-8 Auerbach BD, Bear MF (2010) Loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein decouples metabotropic glutamate receptor dependent priming of long-term potentiation from protein synthesis. J Neurophysiol. Aug;104(2):1047-51. McCullagh EA, Rotschafer SE, Auerbach BD, Klug A, Kaczmarek LK, Cramer KS, Kulesza RJ Jr, Razak KA, Lovelace JW, Lu Y, Koch U, Wang Y (2020) Mechanisms underlying auditory processing deficits in Fragile X syndrome. FASEB J. Mar;34(3):3501-3518. Radziwon K, Auerbach BD, Ding D, Liu X, Chen GD, Salvi R (2019) Noise-Induced loudness recruitment and hyperacusis: Insufficient central gain in auditory cortex and amygdala. Neuroscience. Dec 1;422:212-227. Stoppel LJ*, Auerbach BD*, Senter RK, Preza AR, Lefkowitz RJ, Bear MF (2017) -Arrestin2 Couples Metabotropic Glutamate Receptor 5 to Neuronal Protein Synthesis and Is a Potential Target to Treat Fragile X. Cell Rep. Mar 21;18(12):2807-2814. Dlen G, Osterweil E, Rao BS, Smith GB, Auerbach BD, Chattarji S, Bear MF (2007) Correction of fragile X syndrome in mice. Neuron.Dec 20;56(6):955-62. Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
