Hong Jin | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Hong Jin hjin@illinois.edu 493 Roger Adams Laboratory Office: (217) 244-9493 Lab: (217) 333-3944 Fax: (217) 244-5858 Mail to: University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Dept of Biochemistry 493 Roger Adams Laboratory Box B4, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Associate Professor of Biochemistry Professor of Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Research Topics Drug Discovery, Enzymology, Genomics, Protein Structure, Protein Synthesis, Protein-Nucleic Acid Interactions, Regulation of Gene Expression, RNA Biology Disease Research Interests Cancer, Drug Discovery Education B. S. Central China Normal University Ph.D. Yale University Postdoctoral Fellow Medical Research Council - Laboratory of Molecular Biology (Cambridge, United Kingdom) Announcement We welcome highly motivated students and postdoctoral fellows in Chemistry, Biochemistry, Biophysics, Molecular Biology or related fields. For prospective students, please apply for admission and list Prof. Jin as your faculty of interest. If you are a current UIUC student, please send your CV directly to Prof. Jin. For postdoctoral position application, please send your CV, a brief statement of career interests, and contact information of three academic referees to Prof. Jin. Overview Protein synthesis and its regulation are essential for gene regulation. For all organisms, protein synthesis takes place in the ribosome, a remarkable molecular machine in all cells. Protein synthesis is mainly regulated at the initiation and the termination stages where the ribosome is complexed with cellular regulatory and translational protein factors to function. Translation directly influences important cellular processes such as development, differentiation, growth, cell fitness and cellular adaptive responses to the external environment. Consequently, regulatory dysfunction in translation results in numerous diverse human diseases including metabolic disorders, neuronal degenerative diseases and cancer. We are pursuing the molecular understanding of translation and its regulation using biochemical, genomic, and biophysical methods with an emphasis on macromolecule crystallography. I. Mechanisms and functions of cap-independent translation in eukaryotic cells The major pathway for the initiation of protein synthesis in eukaryotes is the cap-dependent pathway,which recruits a set of protein initiation factors to mRNAs that have 5 m7G caps. However, under certain cellular conditions, such as variations of the cell cycle, developmental patterning, cellular responses to external perturbations and diseases, cells down-regulate cap-dependent translation, and instead, selectively translate subsets of mRNA via an alternative, cap-independent translational pathway. The mRNAs translated in the cap-independent pathway often contain sequence-specific and/or structure-specific regions in their 5-untranslated regions (5-UTRs) that recruit translation factors, regulatory proteins and translational machinery in a highly coordinated way. The cap-independent translation is critical to cells ability to adapt to the environment and cell survival. Click to enlarge image. We are investigating the mechanism, function and regulation of cap-independent translation at both genomic and molecular levels. We are probing the translational status of the cell at a genome-wide scale using high-throughput mRNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling techniques. In parallel, we are using biochemistry, genetics and structural biology to study how translational apparatuses are assembled and what their structures and functions are in the cap-independent translation pathway. II. Molecular mechanisms of translational termination in bacteria Ribosomes translate genetic information encoded in messenger RNAs (mRNAs) into proteins in all cells. It is a large RNA-protein complex with a molecular weight of about 2.5MDa in bacteria. All ribosomes consist of two asymmetrical subunits that perform different, but closely coupled functions: the small subunit decodes the genetic information in the mRNA; and the large subunit synthesizes and releases the protein by catalyzing the formation of peptide bonds and the release of nascent proteins from the ribosome. To ensure the speed and accuracy of protein synthesis, ribosomes orchestrate different scales of conformational rearrangements: from localized conformational changes of specific essential residues to global conformational rearrangements that involve the inter-subunit rotation. We have identified a new crystal form that can accommodate the bacteria ribosome complexed with translational GTPases, when the two ribosomal subunits rotate relative to each other. We are using X-ray crystallographic techniques to study ribosomal complexes along the translational pathway with a focus on the translational termination. A molecular understanding of the bacterial ribosome at the atomic-level detail will provide valuable information for designing antibacterial targets as well as reprogramming translation to probe fundamental questions on the origin and evolution of life. Click to enlarge image. Structure of RF3GDPCP bound to 70S bacterial ribosome in the fully rotated conformation [1]. Awards NIH Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award 2009-2012 Representative Publications Our paper entitled "Structural basis of co-translational quality control by ArfA and RF2 bound to ribosome" is published online in Nature on January 11, 2017 Read the article here http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nature21053.html Fuxing Zeng and Hong Jin Peptide release promoted by methylated RF2 and ArfA in nonstop translation is achieved by an induced-fit mechanism. RNA. 2016 Jan;22(1):49-60. doi: 10.1261/rna.053082.115. Epub 2015 Nov 9. PubMed PMID: 26554029; PubMed Central PMCID: PMC4691834. Hong Jin, Ann C. Kelley and V. Ramakrishnan Crystal structure of the hybrid state of ribosome in complex with the GTPase release factor 3 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., 108(38): 15798-15803, 2011 Hong Jin, Ann C. Kelley, David Loakes, and V. Ramakrishnan The structure of the 70S ribosome bound to RF2 and a substrate analog provides insights into catalysis of peptide release Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.,, 107(19): 8593-8598, 2010 Albert Weixlbaumer*, Hong Jin*, Cajetan Neubauer, Rebecca M. Voorhees, Sabine Petry, Ann C. Kelley and V. Ramakrishnan *These two authors contributed equally to the work Insights into translational termination from the structure of RF2 bound to the ribosome. Science, 322(5903): 953-956, 2008 Hong Jin, J. Patrick Loria and Peter B. Moore, Solution structure of an rRNA substrate bound to the pseudouridylation pocket of a box H/ACA snoRNA Mol. Cell, 26(2): 205-215, 2007 School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
