Eric Jakobsson | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Eric Jakobsson jake@ncsa.illinois.edu 4021 Beckman Institute Office: (217) 244-2896 Lab: (217) 244-0072 Fax: (217) 244-2909 Mail to: 4021 Beckman Institute 405 North Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Professor Emeritus of Biophysics and Computational Biology Professor Emeritus of Bioengineering Professor Emeritus of Neuroscience Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology Director, National Center for Biomimetic Nanoconductors Senior Research Scientist, National Center for Supercomputing Applications Education B.A. 1959 Columbia College B.S. 1960 Chemical Engineering, Columbia University School of Engineering Ph.D. 1969 Physics, Dartmouth College Postdoc. 1969-1971 Department of Physiology, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine Computational studies of biological transport: understanding and engineering life at the interface Two major lines of effort in computational biochemistry are: 1) the use of simulations to understand the physical chemical bases of biomolecular function, and 2) bioinformatics, the use of advanced information technology to extract meaning from databases containing information on sequence, structure, and function. In our laboratory we use both bioinformatics and simulation to understand biological transport. In one line of work, we are doing simulations of patches of lipid bilayer membranes. The initial phase of this work has involved establishing the basic technology for molecular dynamics simulations of membranes, such as boundary conditions, force fields, and statistical methods for conformational sampling. More recently we have embarked on studies of heterogenous membranes and the development of multiscale methods to. In a second line of work, we are studying permeation in ion channels. We do sequence- and physics-based structural modeling, simulation studies of permeation, and studies on sequence-function relationships. Finally, we are working with engineers and materials scientists to transform our understanding into the design of devices that utilize the technology of self-assembly of biological or biomimetic transporters on nanoporous silicon. Representative Publications Varma, S., and E. Jakobsson. 2004 Ionization states of residues in OmpF and mutants: effects of dielectric constant and interactions between residues. Biophys J. 86:690-704 Pandit, S. A., Vasudevan, S., Chiu, S. W., Mashl, R. J., Jakobsson, E. and L. R. Scott 2004 Sphingomyelin-Cholesterol Domains in Phospholipid Membranes: Atomistic Simulation. Biophys. J. 87:1092-1100 Pandit SA, Jakobsson E, Scott HL. 2004 Simulation of the early stages of nano-domain formation in mixed bilayers of sphingomyelin, cholesterol, and dioleylphosphatidylcholine. Biophys J. (5):3312-22 Malmberg NJ, Varma S, Jakobsson E, Falke JJ 2004 Ca2+ activation of the cPLA2 C2 domain: ordered binding of two Ca2+ ions with positive cooperativity. Biochemistry. (51):16320-8 Tasneem A, Iyer LM, Jakobsson E, Aravind L. 2005 Identification of the prokaryotic ligand-gated ion channels and their implications for the mechanisms and origins of animal Cys-loop ion channels. Genome Biol. 2005;6(1):R4 Varma, S., Chiu, S.W., and E. Jakobsson. 2005 The influence of amino acid protonation states on molecular dynamics simulations of bacterial porin OmpF. Biophys. J. in press Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
