Vivian W Tang | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Vivian W Tang vtang@illinois.edu Office: 555B Morrill Hall Mail to: Dept. of Cell & Developmental Biology University of Illinois B107 CLSL 601 S. Goodwin Avenue Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Research Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology Education B.A., University of California, Berkeley (Physiology) Ph.D., University of California, San Francisco (Physiology) Postdoc, Harvard Medical School, Harvard University Epithelial Junction Epithelial cells cover human body cavities and line internal organs, providing protection from biological, chemical, and mechanical insults. In vertebrates, the physiological function of an epithelium require the assembly of a specialized intercellular structure known as the apical junction. My laboratory focuses on 3 main topics surrounding the epithelial apical junction. First, we aim to understand the role of the apical junction in providing adhesions between cells. Second, we aim to understand the role of the apical junction in paracellular permeability and ion transport. Third, we aim to dissect the molecular mechanism of junction remodeling. The overall goal of the lab is to understand how the apical junction contributes to epithelial homeotasis and supports the physiological functions of epithelial tissues. Teaching Co-Director of Renal Course Curriculum, Carle Illinois College of Medicine Awards Research Career Award, NIDDK, NIH LAS Impact Award, UIUC Representative Publications Timothy Morris, Eva Sue, Caleb Geniesse, William M Brieher, Vivian W Tang (2021) Synaptopodin is required for stress fiber and contractomere assembly at the epithelial junction. bioRxiv pre-print Article John X. H. Li, Vivian W. Tang, Kingsley A. Boateng, and William M. Brieher (2021). Actin protrusions push at apical junctions to maintain E-cadherin adhesion. Proceedings of the National Acadamy of Science Abstract Vivian W. Tang (2020) Collagen, stiffness, and adhesion: the evolutionary basis of vertebrate mechanobiology. Molecular Biology of the Cell Perspective Vivian W. Tang, Ambika V. Nadkarni, and William M. Brieher (2020). Catastrophic actin filament bursting by cofilin, Aip1, and coronin. Journal of Biological Chemistry Abstract John X. H. Li, Vivian W. Tang, and William M. Brieher (2019). Actin protrusions push at apical junctions to maintain E-cadherin adhesion. Proceedings of the National Acadamy of Science Abstract Nivetha Kannan and Vivian W. Tang (2018) Myosin-1c promotes E-cadherin tension and force-dependent recruitment of -actinin to the epithelial cell junction. Highlighted in "May the FORCE be with you" J. Cell. Sci. Abstract Vivian W. Tang (2018) Cellcell adhesion interface: orthogonal and parallel forces from contraction, protrusion, and retraction. F1000Prime Perspective Vivian W. Tang (2017) Cell-cell adhesion interface: rise of the lateral membrane. F1000Prime Perspective Nivetha Kannan and Vivian W. Tang (2015) Synaptopodin couples epithelial contractility to -actinin-4dependent junction maturation. J. Cell Biol. 211:407-434. Abstract Vivian W. Tang and William M. Brieher. (2013) Capping actin barbed-ends by FSGS3/CD2AP stabilizes actin at the adherens junction to strengthen epithelial cohesion and protect permeability barrier. J. Cell Biol. 203:815-833. Abstract Vivian W. Tang and Willaim M. Brieher. (2012) Alpha-actinin-4/FSGS1 is required for arp2/3-dependent actin assembly at the adherens junction. J. Cell Biol. 196:115-130. Abstract Vivian W. Tang (2006) Proteomics and bioinformatic analysis of tight junction reveals an unexpected cluster of synaptic proteins. Biology Direct 1:37. Abstract School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
