Stephen Leffler Buchwald MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Research in the Buchwald Group combines elements of organic synthesis, physical organic chemistry and organometallic chemistry to devise catalytic processes of use in solving problems of fundamental importance. Office18-490Phone617-253-1885Emailsbuchwal@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantNancy ParkinsonAssistant Phone617-253-1830 Lab Website Home Faculty Stephen Leffler Buchwald Stephen Leffler Buchwald Camille Dreyfus Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office18-490Phone617-253-1885Emailsbuchwal@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantNancy ParkinsonAssistant Phone617-253-1830Lab Website The research in our group combines elements of organic synthesis, physical organic chemistry and organometallic chemistry to devise catalytic processes of use in solving problems of fundamental importance. In this way we invent or develop new techniques, determine how they proceed and apply them in a synthetically interesting context. The key to our success has been the extraordinary quality of the coworkers in the research group over the years. We are interested in a wide number of different types of transformations. These include: The creation and study of new ligands: The design of new methods for the formation of carbon-nitrogen bonds: This work involves the use of metal catalysts, usually based on palladium or copper. The development of new methods for the formation of carbon-fluorine bonds: This methodology is used in PET and medicinal chemistry applications. The use of mechanistic and structural studies to aid in ligand and catalyst development: The development of continuous flow chemistry using microreactors and capillary tubing: This work takes advantage of the increased heat and mass transfer properties of silicon microreactors, and allows for optimization on a very small scale. The use of mechanistic and structural studies to aid in ligand and catalyst development: The development of continuous flow chemistry using microreactors and capillary tubing: This work takes advantage of the increased heat and mass transfer properties of silicon microreactors, and allows for optimization on a very small scale. Key Publications See all on the Buchwald Group WebsiteCatalytic Arylhydroxylation of Dehydroalanine in Continuous Flow for Simple Access to Unnatural Amino AcidsK. M. R. Khan, Zhao, Y. , Scully, T. , and Buchwald, S. L., Chem. Eur. J., 2018, Accepted Article. Full text at Wiley Online LibraryA Modified System for the Synthesis of Enantioenriched NArylamines through CopperCatalyzed HydroaminationS. Ichikawa, Zhu, S. , and Buchwald, S. L., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2018, 57, 8714-8718.Full text at Wiley Online LibraryCuHCatalyzed Asymmetric Hydroamidation of VinylarenesY. Zhou, Engl, O. D. , Bandar, J. S. , Chant, E. D. , and Buchwald, S. L., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2018, 57, 6672-6675.Full text at Wiley Online LibraryCopper-Catalyzed Enantioselective Hydroamination of AlkenesR. Y. Liu and Buchwald, S. L., Org. Syn., 2018, 95, 80-96.Full text at Organic SynthesisAsymmetric Cu-Catalyzed 1,4-Dearomatization of Pyridines and Pyridazines without Preactivation of the Heterocycle or NucleophileM. W. Gribble, Guo, S. , and Buchwald, S. L., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140(15), 5057-5060.Full text at JACSBreaking the Base Barrier: An Electron-Deficient Palladium Catalyst Enables the Use of a Common, Soluble Base in CN CouplingJ. M. Dennis, White, N. A. , Liu, R. Y. , and Buchwald, S. L., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140(13), 47214725.Full text at JACSPalladium-Catalyzed CO Cross-Coupling of Primary AlcoholsH. Zhang, Ruiz-Castillo, P. , and Buchwald, S. L., Org. Lett., 2018, 20, 1580-1583. Full text at Organic LettersMolecular Design of Deep Blue Thermally Activated Delayed Fluorescence Materials Employing a Homoconjugative Triptycene Scaffold and Dihedral Angle TuningW. Huang, Einzinger, M. , Zhu, T. , Chae, H. Sik, Jeon, S. , Ihn, S. - G. , Sim, M. , Kim, S. , Su, M. , Teverovskiy, G. , Wu, T. , Van Voorhis, T. , Swager, T. M. , Baldo, M. A. , and Buchwald, S. L., Chem. Mater., 2018, 30(5), 14621466.Full text at Chemistry of Materials Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
