Fred Delcomyn | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Fred Delcomyn delcomyn@illinois.edu 422A Morrill Hall Office: (217) 333-8793 Fax: (217) 244-3499 Mail to: Department of Entomology 320 Morrill Hall 505 S. Goodwin Urbana, IL 61801 Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Professor of Neuroscience Professor of Entomology Education B.S. (Biology) Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 1962 M.S. (Biology) Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 1964 Ph.D. (Biology) University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 1969 Physiology and simulation of insect behavior Any animals behavior is the result of the spatial and temporal patterning of the activity of motor neurons. How does the central nervous system generate such a pattern? We investigate this question physiologically, by computer simulation, and by robotics, using walking as a model behavior. Physiologically, we study the characteristics of sense organs and the effects of manipulation of their output on the pattern of walking. Such experiments help us to establish the contribution of different sense organs to the walking pattern. We also use computer simulations of the walking control system to study locomotion. Simulations help determine what kinds of control mechanisms can generate patterned output that is similar to that observed in the living animal, and how sensory feedback may contribute to the pattern, allowing us to further develop our concepts about how the control system is organized. Working with robotics engineers, we build and study six-legged walking robots to test specific hypotheses generated from the physiological and simulation work as to how the locomtor system can generate coordinated walking. Awards U.S. Public Health Service Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oregon, March - September 1969 Summer Faculty Fellow, University of Illinois, Urbana, June - August 1973 Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (elected May, 1983) Biographee in "Who's Who in Frontiers of Science and Technology " published by Marquis Who's Who, Inc. (Since 1986.) Biographee in "Who's Who in the MidWest " Published by Marquis Who's Who, Inc. (Since 1986.) Senior Fulbright Scholar, Federal Republic of Germany, 1987 - 1988 Representative Publications Delcomyn, F. 1980. Neural basis of rhythmic behavior in animals. Science, 210:4928. Delcomyn, F. 1985. Walking and running. In Comprehensive Insect Physiology, Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Ed. by G.A. Kerkut and L.I. Gilbert, Vol. 5, Chapter 11, pp. 439-466. London: Pergamon Press. Delcomyn, F. 1991. Perturbation of the motor system in freely walking cockroaches. I. & II. J. Exp. Biol., 156:483517. Delcomyn, F. 1999. Walking robots and the central and peripheral control of locomotion in insects. Auton. Rob. 7:25970. Reichler, J.A. and F. Delcomyn. 2000. A dynamics simulator and controller testbed for biologically inspired walking robots. Int. J. Robotics Res., 19:4258. Delcomyn, F. and Nelson, M.E. 2000. Architectures for a biomimetic hexapod robot. Robot. Auton. Sys., 30:515. Li, J., Fan, Z., Chen, J., Zou, J., Liu, C. and Delcomyn, F. 2002. High yield microfabrication process for biomimetic artificial haircell sensors, Smart Electronics, MEMS, and Nanotechnology Conference (Conference 4700), SPIE's 9th Annual International Symposium on Smart Structures and Materials, 17-21 March 2002, San Diego, CA. Delcomyn, F. 2004. Insect Walking and Robotics. Annual Rev. Entomol. 49:5170. Delcomyn, F. 2004. Insect walking. Encyclopedia of Neuroscience, 3d edition (CD-ROM), edited by G. Adelman and B. Smith. Amsterdam: Elsevier. Delcomyn, F. 2004. Insect models for robotics. Encyclopedia of Neuroscience, 3d edition (CD-ROM), edited by G. Adelman and B. Smith. Amsterdam: Elsevier. School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
