Mark E Nelson | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Mark E Nelson m-nelson@illinois.edu Office: (217) 244-1371 Mail to: Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology 524 Burrill Hall 407 S. Goodwin Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Video Interview Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Biophysics and Quantitative Biology, Bioengineering, and Neuroscience Research Topics Computational Biology, Neurobiology, Sensory Processing Education B.S. 1976 Wichita State University PhD. 1983 University of California, Berkley Postdoc. 1983-91 California Institute of Technology Computational Neuroscience; Neuroethology; Adaptive Behaviour The goal of our research is to understand the neural mechanisms and computational principles that allow animals to function effectively in complex, dynamically changing environments. Our focus is on understanding general principles of "smart sensing" in animals. We're interested in how the nervous system extracts and enhances behaviorally relevant information and suppresses irrelevant background noise. We investigate these issues by studying how weakly electric fish detect, localize, and discriminate prey in the dark using their electric sense. Our research involves a combination of behavioral, neurophysiological, computer modeling, and biorobotic approaches. (Prof. Nelson is retired - no current research opportunities) Representative Publications Nelson ME (2011) Electrophysiological Models of Neural Processing. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Syst Biol Med 3(1):74-92 [Abstract] Snyder JB, Nelson ME, Burdick JW, MacIver MA (2007) Omnidirectional sensory and motor volumes in electric fish. PLoS Biol. 5(11):e301. [Abstract] Ldtke N, Nelson ME (2006) Short-term Synaptic Plasticity Can Enhance Weak Signal Detectability in Nonrenewal Spike Trains. Neural Comp. 18(2):2879-2916. [Abstract] Chen L, House JL, Krahe R, Nelson ME (2005) Modeling Signal and Background Components of Electrosensory Scenes. J. Comp. Physiol. A 191(4):331-45. [Abstract] Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
