Timothy F. Jamison MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The mission of the Jamison group is to accelerate chemical synthesis through new reactions and technologies, particularly through the use of continuous flow synthesis, nickel-catalysis and epoxide-opening cascades. Office18-590Phone617-253-2135Emailtfj@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantNancy ParkinsonAssistant Phone617-253-1830 Lab Website Home Faculty Timothy F. Jamison Timothy F. Jamison Robert R. Taylor Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office18-590Phone617-253-2135Emailtfj@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantNancy ParkinsonAssistant Phone617-253-1830Lab Website The unifying theme of our research is the discovery and application of new chemical reactions and technologies. Continuous Flow Synthesis: Among our research endeavors is the development of effective and reliable continuous flow protocols to improve reaction yield, selectivity and minimize safety risks relative to batch conditions. Included are continuous flow protocols to prepare b-amino alcohols, amino acids, tetrazoles, pyrazoles, oligomers, asymmetric ketones, cyclic carbonates and amide bonds, as well as DIBAL-H reductions of esters to aldehydes, oxidation of alcohols and aldehydes, hydrogen-free alkene reductions, couplings, and a variety of transformations mediated by photoredox catalysis. We are also focused on streamlining synthetic processes by telescoping multiple reactions within a single, continuous and uninterrupted reactor network. This circumvents the need for isolation and/or purification of intermediates. Some examples include (a) a continuous protocol for the two-carbon homologation of esters to prepare ,-unsaturated esters with high yield and selectivity; (b) synthesis of 2-functionalized phenols via benzyne-mediated in-line generation of arylmagnesium intermediates and aerobic oxidation; (c) developing a three-step continuous flow system which integrates in-line isocyanide formation and photochemical cyclization for preparing quinoxaline derivatives and (d) developing continuous flow methods for the synthesis of active pharmaceutical ingredients such as rufinamide, diazepam, atropine, lidocaine hydrochloride, nicardipine hydrochloride, neostigmine methylsulfate and fluoxetine hydrochloride. Within a broader context, our group also focuses on the development of end-to-end continuous manufacturing processes which handle a variety of reactions, separations, crystallizations as well as drying and formulation steps to generate active pharmaceutical ingredients in one controlled process. NickelCatalyzed CarbonCarbon Bond Formation: The majority of the transformations under investigation are carboncarbon bondforming reactions promoted by nickel catalysts. We have discovered a variety of coupling reactions to join a number of different functional groups in a highly regio, stereo and enantioselective fashion depending on the nature of the supporting ligands on nickel. EpoxideOpening Cascades: Over two decades ago, Koji Nakanishi proposed a provocative explanation for the structural and stereochemical similarities found across the ladder polyether family of natural products the transformation of a polyepoxide into a ladder polyether via a cascade of epoxideopening events. Effort in our group has focused on the replication or emulation of such cascades. One aim is the efficient synthesis of these extremely complex natural products. In addition, we hope that our explorations into a diverse set of epoxideopening cyclizations and cascades will shed further light on the fundamental feasibility of the Nakanishis hypothesis. Key Publications See all on the Jamison Group Website7-Step Flow Synthesis of the HIV Integrase Inhibitor DolutegravirZiegler, R. E.; Desai, B. K.; Jee, J.-A.; Gupton, B. F.; Roper, T. D.; Jamison, T. F., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 7181-7185.Full text at Wiley Online LibraryPhotoredox Activation of Carbon Dioxide for Amino Acid Synthesis in Continuous FlowSeo, H.; Katcher, M. H.; Jamison, T. F., Nat. Chem. 2017, 9, 453-456. Full text at PubMedDirect -Selective Hydrocarboxylation of Styrenes with CO2 Enabled by Continuous Flow Photoredox CatalysisSeo, H.; Liu, A.; Jamison, T. F., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 13969-13972.Full text at JACSOn-Demand Continuous Flow Production of Pharmaceuticals in a Compact, Reconfigurable SystemAdamo, A.; Beingessner, R. L.; Behnam, M.; Chen, J.; Jamison, T. F.; Jensen, K. F.; Monbaliu, J.-C. M.; Myerson, A. S.; Revalor, E. M.; Snead, D. R.; Stelzer, T.; Weeranoppanant, N.; Wong, S. Y.; Zhang, P., Science 2016, 352, 61-67. Full text at ScienceScalable Synthesis of Sequence-Defined, Unimolecular Macromolecules by Flow-IEGLeibfarth, F. A.; Johnson, J. A.; Jamison, T. F., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 2015, 112, 10617-10622.Full text at PNASNickel Catalysis: Synergy Between Method Development and Total SynthesisStandley, E. A.; Tasker, S. Z.; Jensen, K. L.; Jamison, T. F., Acc. Chem. Res. 2015, 48, 1503-1514.Full text at ACS PublicationsA Three-Minute Synthesis and Purification of Ibuprofen: Pushing the Limits of Continuous-Flow ProcessingSnead, D.; Jamison, T.F., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 983987.Full text at PubMedEnd-to-End Continuous Manufacturing of Pharmaceuticals: Integrated Synthesis, Purification, and Final Dosage FormulationMascia, S. Heider, P. L.; Zhang, H.; Lakerveld, R.; Benyahia, B.; Barton, P. I.; Braatz, R. D.; Cooney, C. L.; Evans, J. M. B.; Jamison, T. F.; Jensen, K. F.; Meyerson, A. S.; Trout, B. L., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 12359-12363.Full text at PubMedSimplifying Nickel(0) Catalysis: An Air-Stable Nickel Precatalyst for the Internally Selective Benzylation of Terminal AlkenesStandley, E. A. and Jamison, T. F., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 1585-1592.Full text at JACSEpoxide-Opening Cascades Promoted by WaterVilotijevic, I.; Jamison, T. F., Science 2007, 317, 1189-1192.Full text at Science Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
