Bradley L. Pentelute MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The Pentelute Lab develops new protein modification chemistries, adapts nature's machines for efficient macromolecule delivery into cells, invents flow technologies for rapid biopolymer production, and discovers peptide binders to proteins. Office18-596Phone617-324-0180Emailblp@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantEmily WensbergAssistant Phone617-253-8929 Lab Website Home Faculty Bradley L. Pentelute Bradley L. Pentelute Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office18-596Phone617-324-0180Emailblp@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantEmily WensbergAssistant Phone617-253-8929Lab Website Throughout evolution, Nature has developed molecular machines to rapidly manufacture, tailor, and deliver large functional biopolymers such as proteins into specific cells. Inspired by these mechanisms of Nature, the Pentelute Lab aims to invent new chemistry for the efficient and selective modification of proteins, to hijack these biological machines for efficient drug delivery into cells and to create new machines to rapidly and efficiently manufacture peptides and proteins. A main goal of the Pentelute Lab is to invent new chemistry to modify Natures proteins to enhance their therapeutic properties for medicine. This goal has posed challenges because proteins contain 20 amino acids that present different reactive functional groups and have a flexible structure in solution. Chemical modifications of proteins need to be biocompatible, site-selective, quantitative, and carried out in water at reasonable temperatures to maintain structural integrity and function. The Pentelute Lab has developed a series of highly efficient and selective chemistries that can selectively modify the amino acids cysteine and lysine within unprotected peptides and proteins. These newly developed chemistries can be catalyzed by enzymes, promoted by short reactive motifs, such as the pi-clamp and DBCO-tag discovered by the group, or mediated by transition metals such as palladium. This extensive protein modification toolkit has enabled the production of potent bioconjugate molecules including peptide macrocycles that cross cell membranes to disrupt cancer or antibody-drug conjugates targeting several disease indications. The Pentelute group designs fully automated fast-flow machines to accelerate the chemical manufacture of sequence-defined biopolymers. It has built the worlds fastest and most efficient machine that can produce thousands of amide bonds an order of magnitude faster than commercially available instruments. The machine is inspired by Natures ribosome that can make proteins in minutes. While the Pentelute groups fast-flow technology is not as fast as the ribosome, it can form one amide bond in 7 seconds. This technology not only facilitates rapid polypeptide generation but it has enabled the group to carry out entire D-scans of proteins to investigate folding and functions. This technology was recently used to achieve stepwise total chemical synthesis of protein chains nearing 200 amino acids in length that retained the structure and function of native variants obtained by recombinant expression. Automated flow technology may solve the manufacturing problem for on-demand personalized therapies, such as cancer vaccines. The Pentelute group also focuses on the delivery of large biomolecules into the cell cytosol. The group has developed chemical approaches for engineering a nontoxic form of anthrax toxin, which transports proteins into cells via a protective antigen-mediated pump. This protein pump can deliver a variety of non-native cargo molecules into cells including antibody mimics, mirror-image proteins, small molecules, enzymes, and antisense oligonucleotides. Recently, the group retargeted the anthrax protective antigen to receptors overexpressed on tumor cells and modified its lethal factor component to target cancer gene dependencies with antisense peptide nucleic acids. This discovery will significantly aid in the development of durable cell-based protein therapeutics. They also overcame the cytosolic delivery barrier with cell-penetrating peptides, chemical vectors that facilitate cellular uptake and nuclear targeting of antisense cargo. Harnessing the power of machine learning, best-in-class variants were predicted and designed de novo, outperforming all previously known peptides for antisense delivery, while being non-toxic and effective in mice. The rapid discovery of selective affinity reagents to native proteins is a challenge in chemical biology and medicine. Leveraging expertise with high-throughput identification of peptides from ultra-large combinatorial libraries, the Pentelute group has developed an affinity selection-mass spectrometry platform for rapid de novo discovery of potent binders to proteins in solution. Using this approach, high-affinity peptidomimetic ligands were identified for the MDM2 oncogenic protein, the 12ca5 clone of anti-hemagglutinin antibody, and the signaling protein 14-3-3. This platformis currently applied for discoveryof non-canonical peptide disruptors of cancer protein-protein interactions that are effective, non-toxic, long-circulating, and stable in cells and animals. Key Publications See all on the Pentelute Group WebsiteSynthesis of proteins by automated flow chemistryHartrampf, N., Saebi, A., Poskus, M., Gates, Z.P., Callahan, A.J., Cowfer, A.E., Hanna, S., Antilla, S., Schissel, C.K., Quartararo, A.J., Ye, X., Mijalis, A.J., Simon, M.D., Loas, A., Liu, S., Jessen, C., Nielsen, T.E., Pentelute, B.L. (2020). Science, 368(6494):980-987.Full text at ScienceTargeting Cancer Gene Dependencies with Anthrax-Mediated Delivery of Peptide Nucleic AcidsLu, Z., Paolella, B.R., Truex, N.L., Loftis, A.R., Liao, X., Rabideau, A.E., Brown, M.S., Busanovich, J., Beroukhim, R., Pentelute, B.L. (2020). ACS Chemical Biology, 15(6):1358-1369.Full Text at ACS PublicationsUltra-large chemical libraries for the discovery of high-affinity peptide bindersQuartararo, A.J., Gates, Z.P., Somsen, B.A., Hartrampf, N., Ye, X., Shimada, A., Kajihara, Y., Ottmann, C., Pentelute, B.L. (2020) Nature Communications, 11:3183.Full text at NatureA Chemoselective Strategy for Late Stage Functionalization of Complex Small Molecules with Polypeptides and ProteinsCohen, D.T., Zhang, C., Fadzen, C.M., Mijalis, A.J., Hie, L., Johnson, K.D., Shriver, Z., Plante, O., Miller, S.J., Buchwald, S.B., Pentelute, B.L. (2019). Nature Chemistry, 11(1):78-85.Full text at Nature Chemistry In-solution enrichment identifies peptide inhibitors of protein-protein interactionsTouti, F., Gates, Z.P., Bandyopadhyay, A., Lautrette, G., Pentelute, B.L. (2019). Nature Chemical Biology, 15(4):410-418.Full text at Nature Chemical BiologyXenoprotein engineering via synthetic librariesGates, Z.P., Vinogradov, A.A., Quartararo, A.J., Bandyopadhyay, A., Choo, Z.N., Evans, E.D., Halloran, K.H., Mijalis, A.J., Mong, S.K., Simon, M.D., Standley, E.A., Styduhar, E.D., Tasker, S.Z., Touti, F., Weber, J.M., Jamison, T.F., Pentelute, B.L. (2018). Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 115(23):E5298-E5306.Full text at PNASPerfluoroarenebased peptide macrocycles to enhance penetration across the bloodbrain barrierFadzen, C.M., Wolfe, J.M., Cho, C.-F., Chiocca, E.A., Lawler, S.E., Pentelute, B.L. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 139, 15628-15631 (2017). Full text at PubMedA fully automated flow-based approach for accelerated peptide synthesisMijalis, A., Thomas, D.A., Simon, M.D., Adamo, A., Beaumont, R., Jensen, K.F., Pentelute, B.L. (2017). Nature Chemical Biology, 13(5):464-6.Full text at Nature Chemical Biology-Clamp mediated cysteine conjugationZhang, C., Welborn, M., Zhu, T., Santos, M., Yang, N., Van Voorhis, T., Pentelute, B.L. Nature Chemistry, 8, 120-128 (2016).Full text at Nature ChemistryOrganometallic palladium reagents for cysteine bioconjugationVinogradova, E.V., Zhang, C., Spokoyny, A.M., Pentelute, B.L., Buchwald, S.L. Nature, 526, 687-691 (2015).Full text at Nature Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
