Arup K. Chakraborty MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The central focus of the Chakraborty Group is to understand the mechanistic underpinnings of the adaptive immune response to pathogens, and harness this understanding to help design better vaccines and therapies. OfficeE25-338Phone617-253-3890Emailarupc@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantMichelle AntunesAssistant Phone(617) 258-0866 Lab Website Home Faculty Arup K. Chakraborty Arup K. Chakraborty Institute Professor of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Physics, and Biological Engineering Core faculty member and former Founding Director, Institute for Medical Engineering & Science, MIT. Founding Steering Committee Member, Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT, & Harvard. Research Areas OfficeE25-338Phone617-253-3890Emailarupc@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantMichelle AntunesAssistant Phone(617) 258-0866 Lab Website Humans have an adaptive immune system which is remarkable in that it enables us to mount pathogen specific responses against a diverse and evolving world of pathogens. The central focus of our group is to understand the mechanistic underpinnings of the adaptive immune response to pathogens, and harness this understanding to help design better vaccines and therapies. Our work represents a crossroad of the physical and life sciences. The adaptive immune response is mediated by collective dynamic processes with many participating components. These collective processes span a spectrum of scales, from molecules to the scale of the organism (a human), and are inherently stochastic in character. We work on developing and applying theoretical and computational approaches (rooted in statistical physics) to study these processes. A hallmark of these efforts is the close synergy and collaboration between our theoretical/computational studies and experimental investigations in leading immunology laboratories and by clinicians in medical schools. Current interests can be divided into three broad categories. We are interested in understanding the molecular interactions that enable T cells, orchestrators of the adaptive immune response, to translate engagement of surface receptors to pathogens in to function. We are interested in how T cell development in the thymus results in T cells that are specific for unknown and emerging pathogens. We work on understanding the human immune response to HIV, with the goal of aiding efforts to design a vaccine against this scourge on the planet. Our group is also interested in cell membrane biophysics. Arup is one of 12 Institute Professors at MIT, the highest rank awarded to a MIT faculty member. He served as the founding Director of MITs Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, and he is a founding member of the Ragon Institute of MIT, MGH, and Harvard. For over two decades, Chakrabortys work has largely focused on bringing together approaches from immunology, physics, and engineering. His interests span T cell signaling, T cell development and repertoire, and a mechanistic understanding of virus evolution, antibody responses, and vaccine design. Since 2016, Chakraborty has also been interested in the role of phase separation in gene regulation. Chakraborty is one of only 25 individuals who are members of all three branches of the US National Academies National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Medicine, and National Academy of Engineering. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, and has received many other honors including the NIH Directors Pioneer Award, the E. O. Lawrence Medal, and the Colburn, Professional Progress, and Prausnitz Institute Lectureship from the AIChE. Chakraborty has received 6 teaching awards for his classroom teaching, and 24 of his former lab members are now faculty members at universities around the world. He is a co-author of the recent book Viruses, Pandemics, & Immunity. Chakraborty served on the US defense Science board, and is a member of the Board of Governors of the Wellcome Trust. Key Publications See all on the Chakraborty Group WebsiteManipulating the Selection Forces during Affinity Maturation to Generate Cross-Reactive HIV AntibodiesCell, 160, 785 (2015). Full text at CellCoreceptor Scanning by the T Cell Receptor Provides a Mechanism for T Cell ToleranceCell, 159, 333 (2014).Full text at PubMedTranslating HIV Sequences into Quantitative Fitness Landscapes Predicts Viral Vulnerabilities for Rational Immunogen DesignImmunity, 38, 606-617 (2013).Full text at PubMedCoordinate linkage of HIV evolution reveals regions of immunological vulnerabilityV Dahirel et al., Proc Natl. Acad. Sci, 108, 11530-11535 (2011).Full text at PNASEffects of thymic selection of the T-cell repertoire on HLA class I-associated control of HIV infectionNature (2010)Full text at PubMed Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
