Sylvia Teresse Ceyer MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The Ceyer group explores the atomic level dynamics of the interactions of molecules with surfaces of materials that serve as catalysts relevant to energy production and environmental sustainability or as templates for nanodevices. Office6-217Phone617-253-4537Emailstceyer@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantPeter GiuntaAssistant Phone617-253-2457 Lab Website Home Faculty Sylvia Teresse Ceyer Sylvia Teresse Ceyer John C Sheehan Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office6-217Phone617-253-4537Emailstceyer@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantPeter GiuntaAssistant Phone617-253-2457Lab Website We are interested in materials that serve either as catalysts for chemical reactions relevant to energy production, as templates for nanodevices or as the devices themselves. However, surfaces of practical heterogeneous catalysts or of nanotechnological devices cannot be studied under ambient conditions such as atmospheric pressure or liquid environments because the presence of the gas or liquid continually modifies the surface. Therefore, in order to probe a surface unambiguously at the molecular level, experiments must be carried out under ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) conditions (<10-10 Torr). The problem arises that the surface chemistry observed under high pressure of gaseous reactants or in liquids is often different from the surface chemistry observed in the low pressure conditions of vacuum. For example, many surface reactions proceed readily under high pressure conditions typical of a commercial, heterogeneous catalytic reaction but appear not to proceed under the low pressure conditions typical of a laboratory experiment, despite favorable thermodynamics. The different chemistry and, in particular, the lack of reactivity at the low pressures where UHV surface science techniques are operable is known loosely as the pressure gap. We have now uncovered many new mechanisms for dissociative chemisorption, desorption and absorption, such as chemistry with a hammer, that are responsible for the different surface chemistries under the different conditions. These mechanisms are the fundamental principles underlying the pressure effect on surface chemistry. Our understanding of them has enabled us to trick the surface reactions, which could previously only be observed at ambient conditions, to occur in a UHV environment. In turn, the UHV environment enables the mechanism and intermediates of a surface reaction to be unambiguously identified. For example, the capability of carrying out the ethylene hydrogenation reaction on Ni under UHV conditions has allowed us to demonstrate unequivocally that the hydrogen reactive for hydrogenation is hydrogen buried beneath the surface rather than hydrogen adsorbed on the surface, as depicted in undergraduate chemistry texts. Our group is also interested in the dynamics of a surface chemical reaction. A molecular beam-surface scattering experiment, coupled with optical and electron spectroscopies, enables the angular, energy and mass distributions of product molecules from a surface chemical reaction to be measured. Because the product molecules do not undergo collisions before detection, these distributions are directly related to the detailed dynamics of the last step of the reaction. For example, we have recently observed a new mechanism for dissociative chemisorption called atom abstraction. In this process, the dangling bonds of a Si surface abstract a F atom from an incident F2 molecule while the complementary F atom is scattered back into the gas phase. When XeF2 interacts with Si, as it does when XeF2 is used to etch Si to produce microelectromechanical devices, Si abstracts one F atom. The concomitant product, XeF, is propelled away from the surface, as we observe from our measurements of the XeF translational and vibrational energy, due to exothermicity release. A 100 femtoseconds later, XeF that is sufficiently vibrationally excited dissociates in the gas phase, 2 from the transition state, and provides an additional F atom to etch Si. This experiment showed for the first time that gas phase dissociation of a product of a surface chemical reaction is an integral step in the overall chemistry of a molecule-surface interaction. Professor Ceyer is a collaborator of theMIT Energy Initiative. Key Publications See all on the Ceyer Group WebsiteOxygen Adsorption on Au-Ni(111) Surface AlloysC. C. Leon, J. G. Lee, S. T. Ceyer. J. Phys. Chem. C, 118, 29043 (2014) Full text at Journal of Physical ChemistryCO Adsorption on Au-Ni(111) Surface AlloysChristopher C. Leon, Qing Liu, and S. T. Ceyer. J. Phys. Chem. C (2019)Full text at Journal of Physical ChemistryMechanism and dynamics of the reaction of XeF2 with fluorinated Si(100): Possible role of gas phase dissociation of a surface reaction product in plasmaless etchingR. C. Hefty, J. R. Holt, M. R. Tate, S. T. Ceyer. J. Chem. Phys., 130, 164714 (2009)Full text at AIPCatalyzed CO Oxidation at 70 K on an Extended Au/Ni Surface AlloyD. L. Lahr and S. T. Ceyer. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 128, 1800 (2006)Full text at JACSDissociation of a Product of a Surface Reaction in the Gas Phase: XeF2 Reaction with SiR. C. Hefty, J. R. Holt, M. R. Tate, D. B. Gosalvez, M. F. Bertino, S. T. Ceyer. Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 188302 (2004)Full text at APS PhysicsThe Unique Chemistry of Hydrogen Beneath the Surface: Catalytic Hydrogenation of HydrocarbonsS. T. Ceyer. Accts. Chem. Res. 34, 737 (2001)Full text at ACS PublicationsExperimental verification of a New Mechanism for Dissociative Chemisorption: Atom AbstractionY. L. Li, D. P. Pullman, J. J. Yang, A. A. Tsekouras, D. B. Gosalvez, K. B. Laughlin, Z. Zhang, M. T. Schulberg, D. J. Gladstone, M. McGonigal and S. T. Ceyer. Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 2603 (1995)Full text at APS PhysicsThe Chemistry of Bulk Hydrogen: Reaction of H Embedded in Ni with Adsorbed CH3A. D. Johnson, S. P. Daley, A. L. Utz and S. T. Ceyer. Science 257, 223 (1992)Full text at ScienceHydrogen Embedded in Ni: Production by Incident Atomic Hydrogen and Detection by High Resolution Electron Energy LossA. D. Johnson, K. J. Maynard, S. P. Daley, Q. Y. Yang and S. T. Ceyer. Phys. Rev. Lett. 67, 927 (1991)Full text at APS PhysicsCollision-Induced Dissociative Chemisorption of Adsorbates: Chemistry with a Hammer. J. D. Beckerle, Q. Y. Yang, A. D. Johnson and S. T. Ceyer. J. Chem. Phys. 86, 7236 (1987)Full text at AIP Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
