Moungi Bawendi MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The Bawendi Lab focuses on the science and applications of nanocrystals, especially semiconductor nanocrystal (aka quantum dots). Office6-221Phone617-253-9796Emailmgb@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantLi MiaoAssistant Phone617-452-2243 Lab Website Home Faculty Moungi Bawendi Moungi Bawendi Lester Wolfe Professor of Chemistry Advisor for the Minor in Energy Studies, MIT Energy Initiative Research Areas Office6-221Phone617-253-9796Emailmgb@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantLi MiaoAssistant Phone617-452-2243Lab Website The Bawendi Labs research ranges from the very fundamental to applications in electro-optics and biology. There is an ongoing synthetic effort underlying all of this to address the challenges of making new compositions and morphologies of nanocrystals and nanocrystal heterostructures, and new ligands so that the nanocrystals can be incorporated into hybrid organic/inorganic devices, or biological systems. The fundamental spectroscopic focus is largely at the single dot level, were we are currently developing methods for probing the dynamical properties of the electronic structure of dots at time scales between 100 psec and 1 msec. The group is also investigating the physics of multiexcitons in various quantum dots using both ensemble time resolved methods, as well as single quantum dot correlation spectroscopies. They are studying the charge transport properties of films of dots or dot/organic hybrids, within our group and with collaborators. These fundamental transport properties are critical for designing devices like electrically quantum dot based driven light emittiers, lasers, photodetectors and photovoltaics. The Bawendi Lab is studying these three classes of devices, also within our group and with collaborators. On the biology and biomedical side, they are collaborating with a number of biology and medical groups to design nanocrystal probes that meet specific challenges. These include nanocrystals that selectively bind to single receptors on cell surfaces for tracking applications, creating smart nanocrystals that sense analytes to report back on concentrations of species, including for example pH, which is important for following endocytotic pathways and tumor microenvironments, and systematic characterizations of the effect of size, morphology, charge, and other surface compositions, on the uptake (or clearance) of nanocrystals. This last information is critical for the design of nanocrystal probes as molecular imaging agents in vivo. Professor Bawendi is an advisor for the Minor in Energy Studies. Key Publications See all on the Bawendi Group WebsiteA-Site Cation in Inorganic A3Sb2I9 Perovskite Influences Structural Dimensionality, Exciton Binding Energy, and Solar Cell PerformanceCorrea-Baena JP, Nienhaus L, Kurchin RC, Shin SS, Wieghold S, Putri Hartono NT, Layurova M, Klein ND, Poindexter JR, Polizotti A, Sun S, Bawendi MG and Buonassisi T . Chemistry of Materials. 2018, 30, 3734-372.Full text at Chemistry of MaterialsShortwave infrared fluorescence imaging with the clinically approved near-infrared dye indocyanine greenCarr JA, Franke D, Caram JR, Perkinson CF, Saif M, Askoxylakis V, Datta M, Fukumura D, Jain RK, Bawendi MG, Bruns OT. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 2018, 115(17), 4465-4470.Full text at PNASA Ligand System for the Flexible Functionalization of Quantum Dots via Click ChemistryChen Y, Cordero JM, Wang H, Franke D, Achorn OB, Freyria FS, Coropceanu I, Wei H, Chen O, Mooney DJ, Bawendi MG. Angewandte Chemie International Edition. 2018, ASAP, Full text at Angewandte Chemiesing lead chalcogenide nanocrystals as spin mixers: a perspective on near-infrared-to-visible upconversionNienhaus L, Wu M, Bulovic V, Baldo MA, Bawendi MG. Dalton Transactions. 2018, , asap.Full text at Dalton TransactionsStable, small, specific, low-valency quantum dots for single-molecule imagingLee J, Fengb X, Chen O, Bawendi M G and Huang J. Nanoscale. 2018, asap, asap.Full text at Royal Society of Chemistry Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
