Matthew D. Shoulders MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The Shoulders Laboratory is focused on integrating the tools of chemistry and biology to elucidate the complex pathways responsible for maintaining cellular protein homeostasis. Office16-573APhone617-452-3525Emailmshoulde@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantBetty Lou McLanahanAssistant Phone617-253-0630 Lab Website Home Faculty Matthew D. Shoulders Matthew D. Shoulders Associate Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office16-573APhone617-452-3525Emailmshoulde@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantBetty Lou McLanahanAssistant Phone617-253-0630Lab Website Maintaining the proper three-dimensional structure, concentration, activity, and localization of proteins is a critical and constant challenge for all organisms. Dysregulated protein homeostasis is inextricably linked to disease states. Accordingly, the most prominent diseases of modern timesincluding neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimers disease, diabetes, loss-of-function diseases like cystic fibrosis, many types of cancer, and even viral infectionsare either caused directly by a failure to maintain protein homeostasis or reliant on innate cellular protein folding mechanisms. Proteome repair achieved by targeting the cellular mechanisms that regulate protein folding could transform the therapeutic options for broad swaths of protein folding-related disease. Critically, methods to intervene in a single important protein folding pathway could be applied to multiple, diverse pathologies. Before proteome repair can mature as a therapeutic strategy, we must learn much more about how proteins fold in the cell and about the specific cellular mechanisms we can exploit to rescue pathologic protein folding problems without globally disrupting cell health. Few selective chemical and chemical biologic tools currently exist to explore these issues in vivo. The Shoulders Laboratory is focused on integrating the tools of chemistry and biology to elucidate the complex pathways responsible for maintaining cellular protein homeostasis. Our lab employs a multi-disciplinary approach to (1) understand at the molecular level how the cell remodels itself to address challenges to protein homeostasis, (2) elucidate the pathophysiology of protein folding-related diseases with poorly defined etiologies, and (3) target the biological processes we uncover for the development of new small molecule probes, tools, and (ultimately) drugs. Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
