Robert W. Field MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Tunable lasers, often two or three simultaneously, are used in Field's Current Research Group to investigate the structural and dynamical properties of small, gas phase molecules. Office6-219Phone617-253-1489Emailrwfield@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantPeter GiuntaAssistant Phone617-253-2457 Lab Website Home Faculty Robert W. Field Robert W. Field Professor of Chemistry Post-Tenure Office6-219Phone617-253-1489Emailrwfield@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantPeter GiuntaAssistant Phone617-253-2457Lab Website Polyatomic molecules are like balls-and springs, yet eigenstates are stationary. Where has the intricate and beautiful dance of atoms gone and how do we recover movies of intramolecular dynamics from complicated line-spectra that are recorded in the frequency-domain? Is Intramolecular Vibrational Redistribution (IVR) a code for I really dont know what is going on or is it an explainable, cause-and-effect mechanistic process: where does the initially localized energy flow, how fast, and why? A complete description is like a telephone directory, true but unmemorable. Mechanism is insight, even if it is neither as true nor complete as a telephone directory. How does an electron exchange energy and angular momentum with vastly more massive nuclei? Frequency- and time-domain spectra of Rydberg states can reveal the fundamental mechanisms of electronnuclear interactions, provided that we learn how to recognize and interpret the characteristic patterns of these simple interactions rather than the more traditional but opaque state-by-state multi-digit molecular constants. When the periods of classical mechanical motions of electrons and nuclei are equal, resonance occurs and energy flow is rapid. How is resonance encoded in a spectrum? Can we design experiments to be explicitly sensitive to resonance or to use resonance for rational external control of intramolecular dynamics? In first-year chemistry we teach/learn about the periodic table, and simple ideas about atomic electronic structure provide elegantly simple explanations for diverse properties of matter. Oxidation states emerge as a descriptive concept capable of making sense of a wide range of chemical and spectroscopic properties of metal-containing molecules. Yet, for metal-containing diatomic and triatomic molecules, both spectroscopists and ab initio quantum chemists seem to have no use for oxidation states. The spectra of these molecules are extremely complicated and understanding them will require unconventional spectroscopic techniques and heretical electronic structure models. Tunable lasers, often two or three simultaneously, are used in Fields Current Research Group to investigate the structural and dynamical properties of small, gas phase molecules. Textbooks present a misleadingly simple picture of how spectroscopists extract information from spectra (which are never born with assignments attached). New, multiple-laser-based and chirped-pulse millimeter wave techniques are making it possible to decode prohibitively complex appearing spectra. Classical mechanics and pattern recognition are becoming important tools for extracting information from spectra. Stimulated Emission Pumping (SEP) Pump-and-Dump spectroscopy, a technique invented at MIT, is providing unprecedented insights into the dynamics of small polyatomic molecules with chemically significant amounts of vibration-rotation excitation. Soon we will be able to uncover in a spectrum the same molecular gymnastics that an Organic Chemist envisions when she speaks of 1,2-hydrogen shifts. The quality, quantity, and simplicity of SEP spectra make it possible to exploit new pattern recognition schemes to extract short-time dynamics directly from frequency domain spectra. Key Publications See all on PubMedEncoding of Vinylidene Isomerization in its Anion Photoelectron SpectrumJ. A. DeVine, M. L. Weichman, B. Laws, J. Chang, M. C. Babin, G. Balerdi, C. Xie, C. L. Malbon, W. C. Lineberger, D. R. Yarkony, R. W. Field, S. T. Gibson, J. Ma, H. Guo, and D. M. Neumark, Science 358, 336-339 (2017).Full TextSpectroscopic Characterization of Transition statesJ. H. Baraban, P. Bryan Changala, G. C. Mellau, J. F. Stanton, A. J. Merer and R. W. Field, Science 350, 1338-1342 (2015). Full TextThe origin of unequal bond lengths in the C(~)1B2 state of SO2: Signatures of high-lying potential energy surface crossings in the low-lying vibrational structureG. B. Park, J. Jiang, and R. W. Field, J. Chem. Phys. 144, 144313 (2016). Full TextDirect detection of Rydberg-Rydberg millimeter-wave transitions in a buffer gas cooled molecular beamY. Zhou, D. Grimes, T. Barnum, D. Patterson, S. Coy, E. Klein, J. Muenter, and R. W. Field, Chem. Phys. Lett. 640, 124-136 (2015). Full TextA New Approach Toward Transition State SpectroscopyK. Prozument, R. G. Shaver, M. A. Ciuba, J. S. Muenter, G. B. Park, J. F. Stanton, H. Guo, B. M. Wong, D. S. Perry and R. W. Field, Farad. Disc. 163, 33-57 (2013). Full TextPerspective: The first ten years of broadband chirped pulse Fourier transform microwave spectroscopy, G. B. Park and R. W. Field, J. Chem. Phys. 144, 200901 (2016). Full TextRydberg Chirped-Pulse Millimeter-Wave Spectroscopy of Rydberg-Rydberg TransitionsK. Kuyanov-Prozument, A. Colombo, Y. Zhou, G. B. Park, V. S. Petrovic, S. L. Coy and R. W. Field, Phys. Rev. Lett 107, 143001 (2011). Full TextThe Spectra and Dynamics of Diatomic MoleculesH. Lefebvre-Brion and R. W. Field, Elsevier, 2004.Full TextSpectra and Dynamics of Small Molecules, Alexander von Humboldt Lectures R. W. Field, Spring Heidelberg, 2015.Full TextEffective Hamiltonians in Handbook of High-Resolution SpectroscopiesR. W. Field, J. Baraban, S. H. Lipoff and A. R. Beck, M. Quack and F. Merkt, editors, John Wiley & Sons (2010).Full Text Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
