Dr. Mohamed Jemni, Professor and Head of Research Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search School of Computing and Information Systems Faculty of Science and TechnologyAthabasca University Our People Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology > School of Computing and Information Systems > Our People > Adjunct Professors > Dr. Mohamed Jemni Home About SCIS History Mission/Vision What We Offer? Research Services Are You Ready to Start a SCIS Program or Course? General Information Why Study Computing and Information Systems? Programs Overview How We Deliver Courses? Course Material Reading Convention Accessing Course Material Financial Assistance SCIS at a Glance Aboriginal Students Women in IT Students with Disabilities Visiting/Unclassified Students FAQs Undergraduate Programs 1-year University Certificate in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems Post-Diploma Undergraduate Course Information Admission & Registration Courses Elective Graduate Course List Elective Courses List for Specializations Elective Courses List for Specializations - UC GDP Course Regulations COMP 495/496 Final Project Course(s) Challenging Courses Graduate Programs Research Research Projects Research Collaboration Publications Guidelines/Policies Related Resource Links Industry Collaboration Research Collaborations Courses for Industry Our People Faculty Dr. Mahmoud Abaza Dr. Maiga Chang Dr. M. Ali Akber Dewan Dr. Jon Dron Dr. Larbi Esmahi Dr. Sabine Graf Richard Huntrods Dr. Vive Kumar Dr. Fuhua (Oscar) Lin Dr. Qing (Ching) Tan Terry Taylor Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Dr. Dunwei (Grant) Wen Dr. Xiaokun Zhang Tutors Mushtaq Ahmad Ebrahim Bagheri Moushir Elbishouty Judy Gratton Goran Jelica Randolph (Randy) Kaltenbach Steve Leung Laura Marik Walter Ridgewell Regner Sabillon Alan Sweeney Dr. Vlad Voytenko Hartley Waldman Adjunct Professors Dr. Ebrahim Bagheri Dr. Nian-Shing Chen Dr. Ronghuai Huang Dr. Mohamed Jemni Dr. Qun Jin Dr. Demetrios G Sampson Dr. George Siemens Dr. J. Michael Spector Dr. Chunsheng Yang Dr. Amal Zouaq News and Events Contact Us Download Starter Kit Apply Online Register for a Course Online Calendar Convocation Library Faculty of Science & Technology Faculty of Graduate Studies Dr. Mohamed Jemni, Professor and Head of Research Unit of Technologies of Information and Communication, University of Tunis, Tunisia Homepage: http://www.utic.rnu.tn/english/memb_jemni.htm Mohamed JEMNI is a Professor at Ecole Suprieure des Sciences et Techniques de Tunis (ESSTT), University of Tunis, Tunisia. He obtained the HDR (Habilitation to Supervise Research) in Computer Science from University of Versailles, France in 2004. He received his PhD in Computer Science from University of Tunis in 1997 and the Engineer Diploma in Computer Science from Faculty of Sciences of Tunis in 1991. He is the Head of the Laboratory Research UTIC: "Unit of Technologies of Information and Communication" of the University of Tunis (www.utic.rnu.tn). Since August 2008, he is the General chair of the Computing Center el Khawarizmi, the internet services provider for the sector of the higher education and scientific research in Tunisia (www.cck.rnu.tn).He published more than 120 papers in international journals and conferences. His Research Projects Involvement are e-learning tools and environments, Adaptive/adaptable educational hypermedia and Accessibility of ICT to disabled users.In the field of accessibility, Mohamed Jemni is the chairman of biannual international conference on ICT and Accessibility www.icta.rnu.tn (first edition in April 2007). He is currently conducting two main projects in his laboratory: Improving accessibility of deaf community by the use of ICT and sign language. Development of an e-learning environment for students with visual disabilities. Updated June 25 2014 by FST Technical Staff Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
