Dr. Ronghuai Huang - Professor and Deputy Dean Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search School of Computing and Information Systems Faculty of Science and TechnologyAthabasca University Our People Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology > School of Computing and Information Systems > Our People > Adjunct Professors > Dr. Ronghuai Huang Home About SCIS History Mission/Vision What We Offer? Research Services Are You Ready to Start a SCIS Program or Course? General Information Why Study Computing and Information Systems? Programs Overview How We Deliver Courses? Course Material Reading Convention Accessing Course Material Financial Assistance SCIS at a Glance Aboriginal Students Women in IT Students with Disabilities Visiting/Unclassified Students FAQs Undergraduate Programs 1-year University Certificate in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems Post-Diploma Undergraduate Course Information Admission & Registration Courses Elective Graduate Course List Elective Courses List for Specializations Elective Courses List for Specializations - UC GDP Course Regulations COMP 495/496 Final Project Course(s) Challenging Courses Graduate Programs Research Research Projects Research Collaboration Publications Guidelines/Policies Related Resource Links Industry Collaboration Research Collaborations Courses for Industry Our People Faculty Dr. Mahmoud Abaza Dr. Maiga Chang Dr. M. Ali Akber Dewan Dr. Jon Dron Dr. Larbi Esmahi Dr. Sabine Graf Richard Huntrods Dr. Vive Kumar Dr. Fuhua (Oscar) Lin Dr. Qing (Ching) Tan Terry Taylor Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Dr. Dunwei (Grant) Wen Dr. Xiaokun Zhang Tutors Mushtaq Ahmad Ebrahim Bagheri Moushir Elbishouty Judy Gratton Goran Jelica Randolph (Randy) Kaltenbach Steve Leung Laura Marik Walter Ridgewell Regner Sabillon Alan Sweeney Dr. Vlad Voytenko Hartley Waldman Adjunct Professors Dr. Ebrahim Bagheri Dr. Nian-Shing Chen Dr. Ronghuai Huang Dr. Mohamed Jemni Dr. Qun Jin Dr. Demetrios G Sampson Dr. George Siemens Dr. J. Michael Spector Dr. Chunsheng Yang Dr. Amal Zouaq News and Events Contact Us Download Starter Kit Apply Online Register for a Course Online Calendar Convocation Library Faculty of Science & Technology Faculty of Graduate Studies Dr. Ronghuai Huang - Professor and Deputy Dean Faculty of Education Beijing Normal University China Tel: +86(10)58809054 Fax: +8610-58800641 Website: http://ksei.bnu.edu.cn/en/staff/staff_huangrh.htm Prof. Ronghuai Huang, born in 1965, is a professor and deputy dean of Faculty of Education in Beijing Normal University (BNU), in which educational technology is one of the National Key Subjects, and director of R&D Center for Knowledge Engineering, which is dedicated to syncretizing artificial intelligence and human learning (http://ksei.bnu.edu.cn/). Prof. Huang is visionary and active in the field of exploring how to improve human learning by developing new tools and utilizing new methods innovatively, especially collaboratively learning and its supporting software. He holds a Science Master from Department of Mathematics (1988) and a Ph. D from School of Information Science (2000), both in BNU. He had been engaged in teaching mathematical course as well as developing computer software for 8 years since 1988, and then turned to studying educational technology. Prof. Huang has been engaged in the research on educational technology as well as knowledge engineering since 1997. He has accomplished or is working on over 60 projects, including those of key science and technology projects to be tackled in the national Ninth Five-year Plan, Tenth Five-year Plan and Eleventh Five-year Plan and the projects in the national 863 plan as well as others financed by the government. His ideas have been widely published, with more than 160 academic papers and over 20 books published both nationally and internationally. Prof. Huang has been very active in academic organizations both at home and abroad. He was Co-chairs of the Program Committee of the 6th and 8th Global Chinese Conference on Computers in Education, and chairs of the Organizing Committee of the International Conference on Computers in Education (ICCE2006), the 10th IASTED International Conference on Computers and Advanced Technology in Education (CATE2007) and the 5th International Conference on Wireless, Mobile and Ubiquitous Technologies in Education (WMUTE2008). He was the General Co-Chairs of the 5th International Conference on Advanced Data Mining and Applications (ADMA2009) and the International Conference on Hybrid Learning (ICHL2010). He is editor-in-chief of Global Chinese Journal for Computers in Education (GCJCE). In addition, he is currently serving on the Executive Committee of Asia-Pacific Society for Computers in Education (2008-2011). Updated June 25 2014 by FST Technical Staff Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
