Dr. George Siemens Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search School of Computing and Information Systems Faculty of Science and TechnologyAthabasca University Our People Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology > School of Computing and Information Systems > Our People > Adjunct Professors > Dr. George Siemens Home About SCIS History Mission/Vision What We Offer? Research Services Are You Ready to Start a SCIS Program or Course? General Information Why Study Computing and Information Systems? Programs Overview How We Deliver Courses? Course Material Reading Convention Accessing Course Material Financial Assistance SCIS at a Glance Aboriginal Students Women in IT Students with Disabilities Visiting/Unclassified Students FAQs Undergraduate Programs 1-year University Certificate in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems Post-Diploma Undergraduate Course Information Admission & Registration Courses Elective Graduate Course List Elective Courses List for Specializations Elective Courses List for Specializations - UC GDP Course Regulations COMP 495/496 Final Project Course(s) Challenging Courses Graduate Programs Research Research Projects Research Collaboration Publications Guidelines/Policies Related Resource Links Industry Collaboration Research Collaborations Courses for Industry Our People Faculty Dr. Mahmoud Abaza Dr. Maiga Chang Dr. M. Ali Akber Dewan Dr. Jon Dron Dr. Larbi Esmahi Dr. Sabine Graf Richard Huntrods Dr. Vive Kumar Dr. Fuhua (Oscar) Lin Dr. Qing (Ching) Tan Terry Taylor Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Dr. Dunwei (Grant) Wen Dr. Xiaokun Zhang Tutors Mushtaq Ahmad Ebrahim Bagheri Moushir Elbishouty Judy Gratton Goran Jelica Randolph (Randy) Kaltenbach Steve Leung Laura Marik Walter Ridgewell Regner Sabillon Alan Sweeney Dr. Vlad Voytenko Hartley Waldman Adjunct Professors Dr. Ebrahim Bagheri Dr. Nian-Shing Chen Dr. Ronghuai Huang Dr. Mohamed Jemni Dr. Qun Jin Dr. Demetrios G Sampson Dr. George Siemens Dr. J. Michael Spector Dr. Chunsheng Yang Dr. Amal Zouaq News and Events Contact Us Download Starter Kit Apply Online Register for a Course Online Calendar Convocation Library Faculty of Science & Technology Faculty of Graduate Studies Dr. George Siemens Email: gsiemens@athabascau.ca George Siemens is an educator and researcher on learning, technology, networks, analytics, and openness in education. He is the author of Knowing Knowledge , an exploration of how the context and characteristics of knowledge have changed and what it means to organizations today, and the Handbook of Emerging Technologies for Learning . Knowing Knowledge has been translated into Mandarin, Spanish, Italian, Persian, and Hungarian. Dr. Siemens is the Associate Director of the Technology Enhanced Knowledge Research Institute at Athabasca University, leading the learning analytics research team. He has delivered keynote addresses in more than 30 countries on the influence of technology and media on education, organizations, and society. His work has been profiled in provincial, national, and international newspapers (including NY Times), radio, and television. His research has received numerous national and international awards, including an honorary doctorate from Universidad de San Martin de Porres for his pioneering work in learning, technology, and networks. Dr. Siemens is a founding member of the Society for Learning Analytics Research (http://www.solaresearch.org/). He has served as a member of the Steering Committee for AACE's ED-MEDIA conference since 2008. He is on the editorial board of numerous journals, including MERLOT's JOLT and JIME. He pioneered massive open online courses (sometimes referred to as MOOCs) that have included almost 20,000 participants. Updated December 03 2013 by FST Technical Staff Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
