Faculty Page Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search School of Computing and Information Systems Faculty of Science and TechnologyAthabasca University Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology > School of Computing and Information Systems Home About SCIS History Mission/Vision What We Offer? Research Services Are You Ready to Start a SCIS Program or Course? General Information Why Study Computing and Information Systems? Programs Overview How We Deliver Courses? Course Material Reading Convention Accessing Course Material Financial Assistance SCIS at a Glance Aboriginal Students Women in IT Students with Disabilities Visiting/Unclassified Students FAQs Undergraduate Programs 1-year University Certificate in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems Post-Diploma Undergraduate Course Information Admission & Registration Courses Elective Graduate Course List Elective Courses List for Specializations Elective Courses List for Specializations - UC GDP Course Regulations COMP 495/496 Final Project Course(s) Challenging Courses Graduate Programs Research Research Projects Research Collaboration Publications Guidelines/Policies Related Resource Links Industry Collaboration Research Collaborations Courses for Industry Our People Faculty Dr. Mahmoud Abaza Dr. Maiga Chang Dr. M. Ali Akber Dewan Dr. Jon Dron Dr. Larbi Esmahi Dr. Sabine Graf Richard Huntrods Dr. Vive Kumar Dr. Fuhua (Oscar) Lin Dr. Qing (Ching) Tan Terry Taylor Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Dr. Dunwei (Grant) Wen Dr. Xiaokun Zhang Tutors Mushtaq Ahmad Ebrahim Bagheri Moushir Elbishouty Judy Gratton Goran Jelica Randolph (Randy) Kaltenbach Steve Leung Laura Marik Walter Ridgewell Regner Sabillon Alan Sweeney Dr. Vlad Voytenko Hartley Waldman Adjunct Professors Dr. Ebrahim Bagheri Dr. Nian-Shing Chen Dr. Ronghuai Huang Dr. Mohamed Jemni Dr. Qun Jin Dr. Demetrios G Sampson Dr. George Siemens Dr. J. Michael Spector Dr. Chunsheng Yang Dr. Amal Zouaq News and Events Contact Us Download Starter Kit Apply Online Register for a Course Online Calendar Convocation Library Faculty of Science & Technology Faculty of Graduate Studies Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Associate Professor - School of Computing and Information Systems Email: harrisw@athabascau.ca Secondary Email: Phone#: 780-435-3912Toll-free Phone#: 1-866-301-6337Mobile Phone#: Fax#: 780-435-3912 Education | Teaching Responsibilities | Academic Experience | Consultant Experience | Industry Experience | Professional Memberships | Affiliated Laboratories/Research Centers | Awards and Achievements | Research Profiles and Interests | Advisory Roles | Publications | Research Supervision | Current Projects | Recently Completed Projects | Other Interests | Link to Personal WebpageAided by AU's Mission Critical Fund, a virtual programming lab (VPL) is being developed to support students to learn programming in HTML, CSS, JavaScript,C++ and Java. To see what we have now, please visit http://vpl.athabascau.caEducation Ph.D.,Computer Science, The Australian National University, Australia, 1999 M.Sc., Computer Software, Jilin University, China, 1988 B.Sc., Computer Systems and Architectures, Jilin University, China, 1985 [top]Teaching ResponsibilitiesSince I came to AU in 2000, I have developed the following seven online courses: Comp 266 - Introduction to Web Programming. Comp 347 - Computer Networks COMP 348 - Network Programming in Java COMP 369 - Practical Game Programming Comp 466 - Advanced Technology for Web-base Information Systems Comp 604 - Enterprise Computer Networks Comp 660 - Enterprise Information Security The eighth undergraduate course on computer and information security is in development, and will be ready by the end of 2011. As SCIS undergraduate program director, I am currently coordinating COMP495 and COMP496. I am also teaching COMP660 to master students. [top]Academic ExperienceBefore came to Canada in 2000, I worked as a research fellow in Australia for a year in the area of information security. Since I joined Athabasca University in 2000, I have spent most of my research time on computing technologies for education, or e-learning. I spent about two years on developing EduPalace, an integrated system for Web-based distance education. I have also published many papers and authored two book chapters in the area of e-learning.[top]Consultant ExperienceDuring the time I was in China, I worked as a consultant for the well-known Daqing Oil Co., to develop computer systems and to train the personnel for the company.[top]Industry Experience[top]Professional MembershipsI am a member of IEEE, Computer Society, and ACM.[top]Affiliated Laboratories/Research Centers[top]Awards and AchievementsI am two times award winner for the Mission Critical Fund at AU.[top]Research Profiles and Interests intelligent systems modelling, design and implementation The generic intelligent system model I developed and presented at IJCAI'97 is called constrained object hierarchy (COH). In this model, an intelligent system is a binding of some agents and a world, and for the agents the world consits of some objects, which can be worlds themselves, some defined methods the agents can use to act in or upon the world, and constraints representing the relationships between objects and the methods. Further in this model, constrants are classified as identity constraints, goal constraints, and trigger constraints. Identity constraints define the identity of the world; goal constraints set the goal for the agents to achieve; and the triggering constraints tell the agents under what conditions some defined actions should be taken. universal logic (UniLog) for knowledge representation I will describe UniLog in more detail later when I have time. network security: computer viruses, firewalls, security protocols, policies and formal methods for analysing network protocols and policies enabling-technology for electronic commerce agent systems including multi-agents and mobile agents object-oriented programming methodology and language (GISMO for Generalized Intelligent System Modeller) enabling-technology for e-learning: this is the area I have been working on since I came to this university. [top]Advisory RolesI was on the university's e-learning advisory board, but I couldn't do much at the time. I have been on SCIS Academic Advisory Committee since it was established few years ago; I am also a member of the provincial IB advisory committee for Alberta.[top]PublicationsBook chapter Hongxue Wang: implement mobile learning at open universities, invited book chapter, in Open Source Mobile Learning: Mobile Linux Applications, published by IGI Global, 2010 Hongxue Wang: Asistive Technology for Teachers in Special Education, in Communication Technology for Students in Special Education or Gifted Programs, Joan E., published by IGI Global, 2010 Other Most Recent Publications o Hongxue Wang: Cloud Computing-based IT Solutions For Organizations with Multinational Branch Offices, submitted for publication at The International Conference on Information Management and Evaluation (ICIME) , 27-28 April, Toronto, Canada o Hongxue Wang, towards real virtual classroom, in proceedings of 2010 EDMEDIA conference, Toronto, June 28-July 3, 2010 o Hongxue Wang, Using RSS in Collaborative Course Development, in proceedings of World Conference on E-Learning in Corporate, Government, Healthcare, & Higher Education, Vancouver, Oct. 2009[top]Research SupervisionI supervised the following master students on their thesis essays 1. Peter Brancati, A STUDY OF ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ARCHITECTURE PROVISIONING FOR BRANCH OFFICE DEPLOYMENTS, completed in February 2010. 2. Nola Andrew, A STUDY OF SKILL SET FOR NETWORK FORENSICS PROFESSIONALS, completed October 2009. 3. Dipan Das, Learning assessment for online courses, completed February 2010. 4. Dambar Kattel, Access Control for Web-based Enterprise Systems, completed April 2010. 5. Edward Dubrovsky, PROTOCOLS AND METHODOLOGIES FOR SECURITY ASSESSMENT OF ENTERPRISE NETWORKS, completed January 2010. 6. Loran Mackowetzky, Common Body of Knowledge for Network Forensic Science, completed January 2010. 7. Barbara LePage, Towards more effective course design, completed February 2010 8. Evan Wagner, security assessment on base-based computer networks, ongoing 9. Susan DSilva, learning objective based course design, ongoing I supervised the following undergraduate students on their COMP495/496 essays: 1. Clove Carneiro Junior, Mobile Web presence for Athabasca University, completed March 2010. 2. Abdi Yusuf, an airplane booking system using Java and database, completed December 2009. 3. Loren Bain, Automating Student Letters at NAIT, ongoing[top]Current ProjectsVirtual Programming Lab to support online education: the objective of the project is to develop a Web-based virtual programming laboratory not only to provide students with an online programming environment, but also to enable collaborations among learners and teachers, so that students can get help from each other, and from instructors more timely. [top]Recently Completed ProjectsDigOL - A Web-mining system to mine learning objects from the Web in support of online education. This project was funded by AU's Mission Critical Fund as well.[top]Other InterestsI like to fix things. If you have something broken please don't hesitate to bring it to me. I also like to read WuXia novels especially those by Jin Yong (). As for sports, jogging, cycling and table tennis are my favourite. [top]Link to Personal Webpagehttp://io.acad.athabascau.ca/~harris/ Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
