Halit Uster Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Operations Research and Engineering Management About OREM About OREM Why Operations Research and Engineering Management? Message from the Chair Mission & Objectives Contact Us Open Positions Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Weekend Format Master's Programs Student Learning Outcomes Senior Design Archive Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas People Seminars and Gatherings Seminars and Gatherings Invited Seminars Doctoral Defenses INFORMS Student Chapter News & Events Operations Research and Engineering Management People Faculty Halit ster Halit ster Professor Operations Research and Engineering Management Contact Phone: 214-768-3575 Email: uster@smu.edu Professional website: http://lyle.smu.edu/~uster/ Educational Background Ph.D., McMaster University About Transportation and logistics Network design Decomposition methods for optimization Stochastic optimization Applied and computational optimization with applications in freight transportation, emergency response, bioenergy supply networks, closed loop supply chains, and telecommunications Selected Awards and Recognition Caterpillar Teaching Excellence Award, Dwight Look College of Engineering, Texas A&M University, 2011. Eshbach Society Distinguished Visiting Scholar in the McCormick School of Engineering & Applied Science, Northwestern University, 2009. Faculty Appreciation Award, INFORMS Student Chapter, 2004 and 2009, Texas A&M University. Research Featured in the IE Magazine, Strategic Emergency Preparedness Network Design Integrating Supply and Demand Sides in a Multi-Objective Approach, March 2017. Research Featured in the IE Magazine, A Closed-Loop Supply Chain Network Design Problem with Integrated Forward and Reverse Channel Decisions, November 2010. Research Featured in the IE Magazine, Integrated Warehouse Location and Inventory Decisions in Three- Tier Distribution Systems, August 2008. Finalist for the Daniel H. Wagner Prize for Excellence in Operations Research, INFORMS, 2008, An Integrated Outbound Logistics Model for Frito-Lay: Coordinating Aggregate Level Production and Distribution Decisions, with S. Cetinkaya, G. Easwaran, and B. Keskin. Moving Spirit Award, INFORMS, 2007. Outstanding Faculty Member, voted by the IIE Chapter at the U of Alabama, 1999-2000. School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
