Kevyn Collins-Thompson | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Kevyn Collins-Thompson Back To Directory Kevyn Collins-Thompson Associate Professor of Information, School of Information and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering Email: kevynct@umich.edu Phone: 734/615-2132 Office: School of Information/3344 North Quad Faculty Role: Faculty Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: Yes Kevyn's U-M homepage Research Areas Data Science, Analytics, and Visualization Educational Technology and Learning Analytics Information Economics Library and Information Science Biography Kevyn Collins-Thompsonis an Associate Professor with appointments in theSchool of Information,andElectrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering(by courtesy). I do research at the intersection of information retrieval, human-computer interaction (HCI) and machine learning. My primary research goal is to develop algorithms for improving information systems that can reliably and automatically adapt to users and their information needs, especially to help human learning. A key component of my work involves modeling and understanding users' information-seeking behavior and how people interact with information in different contexts. One area of special interest is development ofrobustalgorithms forrisk-sensitiveinformation systems that can effectively balancerisk and reward, a research direction that I introduced in myPhD thesis. This work connects information retrieval with portfolio theory and other areas of computational finance to arrive at new models, algorithms, and evaluation methods that account for risk. For example, it shows how the reliability of algorithms for core IR tasks like ranking and query expansion can be greatly improved by using learning frameworks that jointly optimize for risk and reward objectives. I'm also interested in large-scale data and text mining, natural language processing, educational applications of IR and machine learning like predicting reading difficulty and computer-assisted language learning, and how the brain acquires language skills. Education My Ph.D. is from the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, where my advisor wasJamie Callan. I was a member of theLanguage Technologies Institute. My undergraduate degree (B.Math.) is from the University of Waterloo. Areas of interest Information retrieval, text mining, machine learning, natural language processing, cognitive psychology, computational finance Honors and awards SIGIR 2013 Best Student Paper Award SIGIR 2013 Best Paper Honorable Mention Award News Two UMSI faculty honored as Distinguished Members of the Association for Computing Machinery The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) has recognized two members of the UMSIfaculty as Distinguished Members for outstanding contributions to the field. More Info Rohail Syed wins best student paper award at CHIIR Rohail Syed was awardedfor his work on a study examining how online Web search can be enhanced to support self-directed learning. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
