Paramveer Dhillon | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Paramveer Dhillon Back To Directory Paramveer Dhillon Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information Email: dhillonp@umich.edu Phone: 734/764-5876 Office: School of Information/105 S State St Faculty Role: Faculty Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: Yes Personal website Research Areas Computational Social Science Data Science, Analytics, and Visualization Biography Please visit my personal website for more details: http://www.pdhillon.com Areas of interest Machine Learning, Information Systems, Data Science, & Computational Social Science. Honors & Awards Morris Dorothy best dissertation award; INFORMS ISS Gordon B. Davis Young Scholar Award; Best paper award at INFORMS 2020; Best paper award runner-up at WISE 2016, 2020. Education A.M in Statistics and M.S.E & Ph.D. in Computer and Information Science from the University of Pennsylvania News Paramveer Dhillon earns Gordon B. Davis Young Scholar Award The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences, has awarded UMSI assistant professorParamveer DhillontheGordon B. Davis Young Scholar Award. More Info Data Science/Computational Social Science Seminars fall roster announced The University of Michigan Data Science / Computational Social Science (DS/CSS) faculty have announced the speakers for their fall 2021 seminar series. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
