Paul Conway | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Paul Conway Back To Directory Paul Conway Associate Professor Emeritus of Information, School of Information Email: pconway@umich.edu Phone: Office: School of Information/4442 North Quad Faculty Role: Emeritus Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: No CV Biography Paul Conway (Ph.D., Library and Information Studies, University of Michigan, 1991) is Associate Professor Emeritus in the University of Michigan School of Information. His research and teaching have focused on archival science, the digitization and preservation of cultural heritage resources, and the ethics of new information technologies. His funded research projects at Michigan have included developing a model of expert user interaction with large collections of digitized photographs, measuring the quality of large scale digitization as represented in the HathiTrust Digital Library, and understanding the complexities of providing digital access to collections of original live audio recordings, including the extensive recordings in the Leo Sarkisian Music Time in Africa Archive. His most cited work appears in American Archivist, Archival Science, and Library Quarterly. Prior to joining the University of Michigan faculty in 2006, he was an archivist at the National Archives and Records Administration and a senior administrator for the libraries at Yale and Duke universities. He is a Fellow of the Society of American Archivists and a 2011 recipient of the Provosts Teaching Innovation Prize. Pronouns he/him/his Areas of interest Digitization, archival science, digital preservation Honors and awards Distinguished Fellow, Society of American Archivists Education Ph.D. University of Michigan, 1991 News Leo Sarkisian's 'Music Time in Africa': U-M archivist, anthropologist revive popular Voice of America show In September 2014, two University of Michigan professors received a phone call that would set them on a race to save more than a half century of African music. More Info Digitization for Everybody to offer instruction on converting analog to digital New tools will teach the fundamentals of converting analog collections according to international digitization standards. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
