Prospective faculty | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home About UMSI Prospective faculty Prospective faculty Open positions: Endowed Esports Professorship with a Focus on User Experience and Data Analytics Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor in Digital Archives, Libraries, and Curation Racial Justice in Healthcare: Informatics and Data-Drive Approaches (cluster hire) Assistant/Associate Professor, Dept. of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy Assistant/Associate Professor, Dept. of Learning Health Sciences, Medical School Assistant/Associate Professor, Anti-racist Health Informatics/Data Science, School of Information Associate Professor/Professor, Dept. of Systems, Population and Leadership, School of Nursing (Open rank), Dept. of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health General information about UMSI openings: The University generally seeks applicants whose research, teaching, and service will contribute to diversity and equal opportunity in higher education. The program is particularly interested in scholars with the potential to bring to their research and undergraduate teaching the critical perspective that comes from their non-traditional educational background or understanding of the experiences of groups historically underrepresented in higher education. The mission of the School of Information is to create and share knowledge to help people use information with technology to build a better world. A successful candidate will be committed to, and will directly contribute to our goal of being the best research and teaching institution for the understanding and design of information and its technologies in service of people and society. The School is home to vibrant research and teaching programs, with 60 FTE professors, and over 1,400 students. We offer five degrees: a Ph.D.,a Master of Science in Information,a Master of Health Informatics,and a Bachelor of Science in Information and an online Master of Applied Data Science. Founded in 1817, the University of Michigan has a long and distinguished history as one of the first public universities in the nation. It is one of only two public institutions consistently ranked among the nation's top ten universities. The University has one of the largest health care complexes in the world and one of the best library systems in the United States. With more than $1.53 billion in research expenditures annually, the University has the second largest research expenditure among all universities in the nation. The University has an annual general fund budget of more than $2.3 billion and an endowment valued at more than $12.5 billion. U-M EEO/AA Statement The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Menu Also In this Section Arrow About UMSI Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Arrow Open Menu UMSI's history Our mission Goals: Achieving the mission (2019-2023) Goals: Supporting the mission (2019-2023) Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Arrow Open Menu Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor in Digital Archives, Libraries, and Curation Anti-Racist Health Informatics/Data Science Faculty Position Endowed Esports Professorship with a Focus on User Experience and Data Analytics Contact us Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
