Department of Computing & Information Technology Skip to main content My UWI Campus Directory Campus Calendar UWI Contacts Department of Computing & Information Technology Website Menu Home ProgrammesUndergraduate Programmes Postgraduate Programmes Internship Project Staff Publications Research StudentsBoot Camp Facilities News About UsMission and Vision Contact Other Information Faculty of Science and Technology UWI / St. Augustine / Faculty of Science & Technology / Department of Computing & Information Technology Share: Professor Patrick Hosein Senior Lecturer in Computer Science Department of Computing and Information Technology The University of the West Indies St. Augustine Trinidad and Tobago, W.I. Telephone: 868-662-2002 ext 85388 Email: patrick.hosein@sta.uwi.edu Qualifications B.Sc in Mathematics (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)B.Sc in Electrical Engineering (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)M.Sc in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)E.E (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)Ph.D in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) Publications listed by Google Scholar Selected Publications 2018 Journal Article Rahaman, I. and Hosein, P. (June 2018) On the Problem of Multi-Staged Impression Allocation in Online Social Networks, Springer Journal on Machine Learning Techniques for Online Social Networks. 2017 Conference Proceedings Rahaman, I. and Hosein, P., Exploiting Gaussian Word Embeddings for Document Clustering, Future Technologies Conference, Vancouver, British Colombia, Canada, Nov 2017 Sekhon, R., Hosein, P., Seok, W. and Kwak, J., Emerging Network Technologies and Network Neutrality Conformance, 19th Asia-Pacific Network Operations and Management Symposium, Seoul, South Korea, Sept 2017 Bhagwandin D., Tripathy V. and Hosein P.Association Rule Mining of Household Electrical Energy Usage.ACM International Conference on Data Mining, Communications and Information Technology, Phuket, Thailand, May, 2017 Rahaman, I. and Hosein, P., Exploiting Gaussian Embeddings for Directed Link Prediction, 13th International Workshop On Mining and Learning with Graphs, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, Aug 2017 Hosein S. and HoseinP.Load Forecasting using Deep Neural Networks.IEEE Eighth Conference on Innovative Smart Grid Technologies (ISGT), Washington DC, USA, April, 2017 Boodhoo, S. and Hosein, P. On the Distributed Optimization of Calendar Events, The 10th International Workshop on Computational Intelligence & Applications Hiroshima, Japan, Nov 2017 Doolan, S., Hosein, N., Hosein, P. and Bhagwandin, D. Constant Time, Fixed Memory, Zero False Negative Error Logging for Low Power Wearable Devices, IEEE Conference on Wireless Sensors, Sarawak, Malaysia, Nov 2017 Journal Article R. Sekhon, P. Hosein, W. Choi and W. Seok, Quality of Service Framework for Supporting Next Generation Mobile Services. Journal of Advanced Research in Dynamical and Control Systems, (08-Special Issue, 2017) 2016 Conference Proceedings S. Sooklal, P. Hosein and S. Teelucksingh "A Review of Human Body Shape Detection Techniques and Their Application to the Prediction of Health Risks", 8th International Conference on e-Health, Madeira, Portugal, July, 2016. Rahaman I. and Hosein P.Using MapReduce for Impression Allocation in Online Social Networks.12th International Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs, San Francisco, Aug, 2016 Rahaman I. and Hosein P.On the Multi-Stage Influence Maximization Problem.Latin American Conference on Computational Intelligence, Cartagena, Columbia, Nov, 2016 S. Hosein and P. Hosein, "Improving Power Generation Efficiency using Deep Neural Network", ICML Workshop #Data4Good: Machine Learning in Social Good Applications, New York, USA, June 2016. Hosein S., Hosein P., Kattick W. and Rattan V.Web Application for Power Grid Fault Management.IEEE 6th International Conference on Intelligent and Advanced Systems (ICIAS 2016), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Aug, 2016 Chamansingh N. and Hosein P.Efficient Sentiment Classification of Twitter Feeds.IEEE International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Applications, Singapore, Sept, 2016 C. Millette and P. Hosein, "A Consumer Focused Open Data Platform", International Conference on Big Data and Smart City, Muscat, Oman, Mar 2016. Hosein P. and Boodhoo S.Event Scheduling with Soft Constraints and On-Demand Re-Optimization.IEEE International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Applications, Singapore, Sept, 2016 Ramneek, P. Hosein, W. Choi and W. Seok, "A Study of QoS Support, Performance and Pricing of Mobile Data Plans in the USA and Korea", IEEE International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, Phoenix Park, South Korea, Jan 2016. Bahadoor K. and Hosein P.Application for the Detection of Dangerous Driving and an Associated Gamification Framework.International Conference on Mobile Web and Intelligent Information Systems, Vienna, Austria, Aug, 2016 Hosein P., Girod-Williams L. and van Rensburg C.Cyclic Beam Switching for Smart Grid Networks.8th IFIP International Conference on New Technologies, Mobility and Security (NTMS), Larnaca, Cyprus, Nov, 2016 Ramneek, P. Hosein, W. Choi and W. Seok, "Quality of Service Support for High Performance Computing on Mobile Devices", IEEE International Conference on High Performance Computing and Simulation, Innsbruck, Austria, Jul 2016. Rahaman I. and Hosein P.Heuristics for Advertising Revenue Optimization in Online Social Networks.IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, San Francisco, USA, Aug, 2016 Maharaj K. and Hosein P.Location Obfuscation using Smart Meter Readings.IEEE 3rd International Conference on Advances in Computing & Communication Engineering, Durban, South Africa, Nov, 2016 Journal Article Ramneek, P. Hosein, W. Choi and W. Seok, "Congestion Detection for QoS-enabled Wireless Networks and its Potential Applications", Journal of Communications and Networks, June 2016, vol. 18, no.3 2015 Conference Proceedings Ramneek, P. Hosein, W. Choi and W. Seok, "Detecting Network Neutrality Violations through Packet Loss Statistics", Asia-Pacific Network Operations and Management Symposium, Busan, South Korea, Aug. 2015. Ramneek, P. Hosein and W. Seok, "Disruptive network applications and their impact on network neutrality", IEEE International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, PyeongChang, South Korea, July 2015. P. Hosein, S. Hosein and S. Bahadoorsingh, Power Grid Fault Detection using an AMR Network, IEEE Smart Grid Technologies Asia Conference, Bangkok, Thailand, Nov. 2015. P. Hosein and T. Lawrence, "Stochastic Dynamic Programming Model for Revenue Optimization in Social Networks", IEEE International Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing, Networking and Communications, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Oct. 2015. Journal Article Ramneek, P. Hosein, W. Choi and W. Seok, "Network Neutrality Violation Detection for Streaming Media Traffic in Wired and Wireless Networks", KNOM Review, vol. 18, no. 1, Aug. 2015. 2012 Patents Xing, S., Hosein, P., Kwon, Y., Hu, J.System and method for enhanced parallel receiving interworking in a wireless communications system.Patent 8,190,165, issued April 10, 2012. P. Hoseinand T. Wu.System and method for utility-based scheduling for space division multiple access (SDMA) on an uplink of a wireless communications network.Patent 8,155,608, issued May 29, 2012 Emergency Contacts | Campus Contacts | Email the Helpdesk The University of the West Indies St. Augustine Tel: (868) 663-1334 / 662-4394 Fax: (868) 663-9684 Programmes Research Students Connections Contact Staff Publications Facilities News Department of Computing & Information Technology UWI St. Augustine Tel: (868) 662-2002 ext. 83640/83080/85383/85382 Disclaimer | Privacy Statement Top of Page
