Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile Andrew A. Chien William Eckhardt Distinguished Service Professor Department of Computer Science Director, CERES Center for Unstoppable Computing Senior Computer Scientist, Argonne Natl Laboratory Editor in Chief, Communications of the ACM Email: achien@cs.uchicago.edu Phone: (773) 834-0117 Office: JCL 339 Website: http://achien.cs.uchicago.edu/ Research: Sustainable Computing, Renewable Energy, Power Markets Cloud Software, Resource Management, Hardware And System Architecture, Resource Management, Systems Biography Andrew is a Fellow of the ACM, IEEE, and AAAS. He is Editor-in-Chief of the Communications of the ACM (CACM), and on Advisory Boards for several universities and corporate research laboratories. Andrew served on the National Science Foundation's CISE Advisory Committee from 2006-2010, and the Board of the Computing Research Association from 2006-2011. He has served on numerous visiting and advisory committees for the Department of Energy, Stanford University, University of California Berkeley, University of Washington, EPFL, and other leading research organizations. From 2005-2010, Andrew was the Vice President of Research of Intel Corporation where he led long-range and disruptive technologies research in computer science. in this role, he was instrumental in creation of the Universal Parallel Computing Research Centers (UPCRC) focused on parallel software, the Open Cirrus Consortium focused on Cloud computing, and Intels long range computing technology -- Exascale -- Research program (UHPC). Chiens previous positions also include the SAIC Endowed Chair Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, and founding Director of the Center for Networked Systems at the University of California at San Diego (1998-2005). From 1999 to 2003, Andrew was Founder and CTO of Entropia, Inc. an early grid computing company. Chien was a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA)(1990-1998). Education Sc.D. in Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology S.M. in Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology S.B. in Electrical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Projects Sustainable Cloud Computing (Zero Carbon Cloud) Recode/UDP - Architecture for Efficient Data Representation and Transformation Global View Resilience (GVR Laboratories Large-Scale Sustainable Systems Group Selected Publications Jiajia Zheng, Andrew A. Chien, and Sangwon Suh, Mitigating curtailment and carbon emissions through data center load migration, Joule, August 2020. Fan Yang and Andrew A. Chien, Large-scale and Extreme-Scale Computing with Stranded Green Power: Opportunities and Costs , IEEE TPDS, December 2017. Hai Nguyen, Chaojie Zhang, Zhujun Xiao, and Andrew A. Chien,Real-time Serverless: Enabling Application Performance Guarantees, Workshop on Serverless Computing (WoSC'19), December 2019. Yuanwei Fang, Chen Zou, and Andrew A. Chien, Accelerating Raw Data Analysis with the ACCORDA Software and Hardware Architecture", VLDB, August 2019. Yuanwei Fang, Chen Zou, Aaron Elmore, and Andrew A. Chien. UDP: A Programmable Accelerator for Extract-Transform-Load Workloads and More , MICRO-50, October 2017 S. Borkar and A. Chien, The Future of Microprocessors, Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery (CACM), May 2011. The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
