Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile Todd Dupont Professor, Departments of Computer Science and Mathematics and the James Franck Institute Senior Fellow, Computation Institute Email: dupont@cs.uchicago.edu Phone: (773) 980-9558 Office: JCL 246 Website: http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~dupont Research: scientific computing Research My research deals with the analysis, evaluation and construction of numerical methods to approximate the solutions of partial differential equations (PDEs). The question of how to make effective use of computers with multiple processing units is one that is being investigated in several ways. I have recently produced several schemes that involve decomposing the computational domain into subregions and organizing the computation so that the work on each of these subdomains can be done almost independently of the others. This work was for parabolic PDEs and I am studying its extension. Including adaptivity in numerical methods can make them more robust and efficient. Most simulations of time dependent problems use adaptivity for the control of the time step, and substantial progress has been made by many people in understanding how to control the spatial mesh when approximating PDEs. I have worked on this for several years. I am currently collaborating with physicists and mathematicians on questions related to instabilities and singularity development in the flow of fluids and psuedo fluids. Projects ASCI Flash The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
