Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile Pedro Lopes Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Email: pedrolopes@cs.uchicago.edu Office: JCL 365 Website: http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~pedrolopes/ Research: human computer interaction, virtual + augmented reality, wearable computing Biography Pedro Lopes is an Assistant Professor at the University of Chicago, where he leads a research group that asks the following questions: (1) what if interfaces would share part of our body? (2) How can we engineer future devices to connect more personally and directly to our body? Pedro has materialized some of these ideas by creating interactive systems intentionally borrow parts of the users body for input and output; allowing computers to be more directly interwoven in our bodily senses and actuators. One specific flavor of such devices that Pedro has extensively explored is devices that borrow the users muscles by means of electrical muscle stimulation. These devices use part of the wearers body for output, i.e., the computer can output by actuating the users muscles with electrical impulses, causing it to move involuntarily. The wearer can sense the computers activity on their own body by means of their sense of proprioception. Pedros wearable systems have shown to (1) increase realism in VR, (2) provide a novel way to access information through proprioception, and (3) serve as a platform to experience and question the boundaries of our sense of agency. Pedros work is published at top-tier conferences (ACM CHI & UIST) and demonstrated at venues such as SIGGRAPH and IEEE Haptics. Pedro has received the CHI Best Paper award for his work on Affordance++, Best Talk Awards and a Best Paper nomination. As part of his research, Pedro has exhibited at Ars Electronica 2017, Science Gallery Dublin and World Economic Forum in San Francisco. His work also captured the interest of media, such as MIT Technology Review, NBC, Discovery Channel, NewScientist or Wired. Previously, Pedro was a PhD student with Prof. Baudisch at the Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany. Pedro leads the Human Computer Integration Lab, a research group focused on integrating computer interfaces with the human body. Selected YouTube videos:VR Walls,Muscle Plotter,Affordance++ Courses taught byPedro: Emergent Interface Technologies (Undergraduate+Graduate, Winter) Inventing, Engineering and Understanding Interactive Devices (Undergraduate, Spring) Inroduction to Human Computer Interaction (Undergraduate, Fall) The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
