Brian Paul | Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering | Oregon State University Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Engineering Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search AboutWelcome People News & Events MIME Student Groups Visitors AccreditationIndustrial Engineering Program MIME Mechanical Engineering (ME) Program Manufacturing Engineering Program Energy Systems Engineering Program Life in Corvallis AcademicsUndergraduate ProgramsEnergy Systems Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Engineering Mechanical Engineering Minors Graduate ProgramsIndustrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science Robotics Interdisciplinary Degrees International Learning Opportunities MIME Course Listings Research and InnovationResearch AreasAdvanced Manufacturing Design Industrial and Systems Engineering Next-Generation Materials and Devices Robotics Thermal-Fluid Science Industry Research Collaborations Undergraduate Research Research Highlights FacilitiesResearch LabsAdvanced Technology and Manufacturing Institute Energy Efficiency Center Machining & Product Realization Lab Instructional Labs Our Impact My MIME Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift AboutWelcome People News & Events MIME Student Groups Visitors AccreditationIndustrial Engineering Program MIME Mechanical Engineering (ME) Program Manufacturing Engineering Program Energy Systems Engineering Program Life in Corvallis AcademicsUndergraduate ProgramsEnergy Systems Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Engineering Mechanical Engineering Minors Graduate ProgramsIndustrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science Robotics Interdisciplinary Degrees International Learning Opportunities MIME Course Listings Research and InnovationResearch AreasAdvanced Manufacturing Design Industrial and Systems Engineering Next-Generation Materials and Devices Robotics Thermal-Fluid Science Industry Research Collaborations Undergraduate Research Research Highlights FacilitiesResearch LabsAdvanced Technology and Manufacturing Institute Energy Efficiency Center Machining & Product Realization Lab Instructional Labs Our Impact My MIME You are hereHome Faculty and Staff Brian Paul Brian Paul 219 Dearborn HallCorvallisOR97331Brian.Paul@oregonstate.eduPhone:541.737.7320Fax:541.737.2600Mechanical, Industrial & Manufacturing EngineeringProfessorModular Manufacturing Focus Area Leader, RAPID Institute Advanced Manufacturing Education: Ph.D., The Pennsylvania State University, 1995 MS, Arizona State University, 1988 BS, Wichita State University, 1985 Research Interests: Dr. Paul conducts theoretical and experimental studies of the physics and chemistry in micromanufacturing processes with an emphasis on materials joining and application to energy systems miniaturization and chemical process intensification. His group has applied chemical process intensification to colloidal nanocrystal synthesis and has explored the coupling of colloidal nanomaterials into various micromanufacturing processes including diffusion brazing, thin film deposition and additive manufacturing. In addition to his faculty appointment in the School of MIME, Dr. Paul also leads the Modular Manufacturing Focus Area within the RAPID Institute, a Manufacturing USA Institute committed to advancing modular chemical process intensification for reducing capital equipment costs and improving energy efficiency in chemical processing. Biography: Brian K. Paul is a professor of manufacturing engineering at Oregon State University. In 2003, Professor Paul joined with three other OSU professors to establish the Microproducts Breakthrough Institute dedicated to commercializing microchannel and nanomanufacturing technology. Since 2008, he has helped 15 companies advance micro and nanotechnologies toward the marketplace, four formed from his work with his graduate students. Five of his OSU patents established the core technology for a spin-out which in 2010 received the largest first round venture capital funding in the history of Oregon. In 2013, Professor Paul was invited to serve as the Assistant Director of Technology within President Obamas Advanced Manufacturing National Program Office, to help devise a federal strategy to overcome industry impediments to manufacturing innovation, now known as Manufacturing USA. Upon his return to OSU, Professor Paul helped establish the Rapid Advancement of Process Intensification Deployment (RAPID) Manufacturing Institute within Manufacturing USA, where he is responsible for overseeing one of six technology focus areas. In this role, he directs efforts between companies, academic institutions and national laboratories to reduce the cost of intensified components by integrating new advanced manufacturing technologies into the metalworking supply chain. He is a fellow of both the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers. He has been at OSU since 1995. Selected Publications: M. Kapoor, O.N. Doan, C.S. Carney, R.V. Saranam, P. McNeff and B.K. Paul (2017) Transient-Liquid-Phase Bonding of Haynes 230 Ni-based Superalloy Using a Ni-P Interlayer: Microstructure and Mechanical Properties, Metallurgical and Materials Transactions, 1 July 2017, 48(7): 3343-3356. P. McNeff and B.K. Paul (2017) Predicting the Force Needed to Create a Compression Seal in an Ultra-thin Elastoviscoplastic Membrane, J. Micro Nano-Manuf., 5(1): 011005-1-5. B. Palanisamy, S. Han and B.K. Paul (2016) A Multi-layer Strategy for Improving the Abrasion Resistance of Silica Nanoparticle-based Motheye Antireflective Coatings on Glass, ASME. J. Micro Nano-Manuf., 4(3): 031005-1-10. B. Palanisamy, B.K. Paul and C. Chang, (2015) The synthesis of cadmium sulfide nanoplatelets using a novel continuous flow sonochemical reactor, Ultrasonics Sonochemistry, 26: 452460. K. Kim, R.P. Oleksak, E.B. Hostetler, D.A. Peterson, P. Chandran, D.M. Schut, B.K. Paul, G.S. Herman, and C. Chang, (2014) Continuous Microwave-Assisted GasLiquid Segmented Flow Reactor for Controlled Nucleation and Growth of Nanocrystals, Cryst. Growth Des., 14(11): 53495355. C. Choi, B. K. Paul and C. Chang (2014) Microreactor-Assisted Solution Deposition for Compound Semiconductor Thin Films, Processes, 2, 441-465. D. A. Peterson, C. Padmavathi, and B. K. Paul, (2014) High Production Rate Synthesis of CdS Nanoparticles Using Reverse Oscillatory Flow, ASME J Micro and Nanomanufacturing, 2(3): 031004-1-8. E. B. Hostetler, K. Kim, R. P..Oleksak, R. C..Fitzmorris, D. A. Peterson, P. Chandran, C. Chang, B. K. Paul, D. M. Schut and G. S..Herman (2014) Synthesis of colloidal PbSe nanoparticles using a microwave-assisted segmented flow reactor, Materials Letters, 128: 5459. S. Ramprasad, Y. Su, C. Chang, B. Paul, and D. Palo, (2013) Continuous microreactor-assisted solution deposition for scalable production of CdS films, ECS Journal of Solid State Science and Technology, 2(9): P333-P337. R. Eluri and B.K. Paul (2013) Development and dispensing of a nickel nanoparticle ink for the diffusion brazing of a microchannel array, J Nanoparticle Research, 15: 1814. B. K. Paul, C.L. Hires, Y.-W. Su, C.-H. Chang, S. Ramprasad and D. Palo, (2012) A Uniform Residence Time Flow Cell for the Microreactor-Assisted Solution Deposition of CdS on a FTO-Glass Substrate, Crystal Growth and Design, 12: 53205328. R. Eluri and B.K. Paul, (2012) Microwave assisted greener synthesis of nickel nanoparticles using sodium hypophosphite, Mater Lett, 76: 36-39. R. Eluri and B.K. Paul, (2012) Synthesis of nickel nanoparticles by hydrazine reduction: mechanistic study and continuous flow synthesis, J Nanopart Res, 14(4): 1-14. B.K. Paul and G. Lingam (2012) Cooling Rate Limitations in the Diffusion Bonding of Microchannel Arrays, J Manufacturing Processes, 14(2): 119125. R. Eluri and B.K. Paul, (2012) Silver nanoparticle-assisted diffusion brazing of 3003 Al alloy for microchannel applications, Materials and Design, 36: 13-23. Future Students Current Students Alumni and Friends Industry and Partners Faculty and Staff Support MIME Contact Info School of Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering 204 Rogers Hall 2000 SW Monroe Avenue Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-6001 Fax: 541-737-2600 info-mime@oregonstate.edu Undergrad Student Services Phone: 541-737-7009 Graduate Student Services Phone: 541-737-3441 mime.gradinfo@oregonstate.edu Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Linkedin Land Acknowledgement Copyright 2021 Oregon State University Disclaimer ABOUT US Overview Accreditation News RESEARCH Overview Research Areas Research Facilities PEOPLE Faculty Research Areas of Research Excellence Faculty & Staff Directory Graduate Students Class Composites Careers INDUSTRY RELATIONS Overview Events Calendar Capstone Design Join Our Mailing List Contact Us STUDENT INFORMATION Undergrad Advising Graduate Advising Undergrad Financial Info Graduate Financial Info MIME Student Groups
