Liu, Yuhong - School of Engineering - Santa Clara University Skip to main content scu.edu Home About SCU Academics Admission Athletics Campus Life Giving Global News & Events Students Faculty Families Alumni Visitors Offices & Services Schools & Centers Admission Giving Offices & Services Schools & Centers Search Search School of Engineering scu.edu Santa Clara University School of Engineering menu Search AboutAbout category links About Dean's Office Vision, Mission and Values Innovation and Entrepreneurship ABET Accredited Programs Engineering Advisory Board Academic ProgramsAcademic Programs category links Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Robotics and Automation Program Departments Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff category links Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Adjunct Faculty Directory Faculty Expertise Faculty Web Pages Staff Roles Endowed Academic Chairs Professional Society Fellows Faculty Resources Labs & ResearchLabs & Research category links Labs Research Beyond the ClassroomBeyond the Classroom category links Beyond the Classroom Community Based Learning Co-ops and Internships Outreach Student Organizations Grand Challenges Scholars Program News & Events AlumniAlumni category links Alumni Five10 Report Alumni Networking Distinguished Engineering Alumni Award SCU Home About SCU Academics Admission Athletics Campus Life Giving Global News & Events Offices & Services Schools & Centers Admission Giving Liu, Yuhong HomeSchool of EngineeringFacultyLiu, Yuhong Associate Professor at Department of Computer Engineering Santa Clara University, received her B.S. and M.S. degree from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in 2004 and 2007 respectively, and the Ph.D. degree from University of Rhode Island in 2012 under the supervision of Dr. Yan (Lindsay) Sun. She is the recipient of the 2019 Researcher of the Year Award at School of Engineering, Santa Clara University, and the 2013 University of Rhode Island Graduate School Excellence in Doctoral Research Award. Her research interests include trustworthy computing and cyber security of emerging applications, such as Internet-of-things, blockchain and online social media. She has published over 60 papers on prestigious journals and peer reviewed conferences. Her papers have been selected as the best paper at the IEEE International Conference on Social Computing 2010 (acceptance rate = 13%) and the 9th International Conference on Ubi-Media Computing (UMEDIA 2016). She is actively contributing to professional societies including IEEE and APSIPA. She is currently serving as the Chair of IEEE Computer Society STC Executive Committee Board, the Vice Chair (Special Technical Communities) of the IEEE Computer Society Member & Geographic Activities Board, and a member of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Meeting Request Committee. She has also served as a member of the Multimedia Security and Forensics (MSF) TC for Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association (APSIPA) since 2019. Google Scholar Research Interests With expertise in trustworthy computing and cybersecurity, my primary research interests include: Online social network security and privacy TrustworthyInternet-of-Things Trust management in cyber-physical systems Blockchain News We recently ran a panel discussion on "Social Media Disinformation and its Impact on Public Health During the COVID-19 Pandemic" at the IEEE Global Humanitarian Technology Conference (GHTC), Oct. 2021. Please check out the video recording athttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iGTKmdJfM18 Dr. Dezfouli and I are organizing a speciall issue "Edge and Fog Computing for Internet of Things Systems" on Sensors Journal(IF: 3.275) (submission link).Submission deadline is July 30, 2021. Please consider to submit a paper. I havebeen selected to serve asAPSIPADistinguishedLecturers (2021-2022) I havebeen elevated to IEEE Senior Member in December 2020. On December 10th- 12th, 2018, wewere The4th International Symposium on Security and Privacy in Social Networks and Big Data at SCU. SCU School of Engineering News on our cloud security work. Teaching COEN 12 Data Structure (Fall 2016, Winter 2017, Fall 2017, Winter 2018, Spring 2018, Winter 2019, Spring 2019) COEN 279/AMTH 377 Design and Analysis of Algorithms (Winter 2016) COEN 146 Computer Network (Spring 2017) COEN 296 Secure and Trustworthy Online Social Media (Spring 2017) COEN 150 Computer and Network Security (Fall 2019) Award The Researcher of the Year at School of Engineering, Santa Clara University 04/2019 The Packard Junior Faculty Fellowship at Santa Clara University 08/2016 The best paper award at The 9th International Conference on Ubi-Media Computing (UMEDIA 2016) The 2013 University of Rhode Island Graduate School Excellence in Doctoral Research Award. The best paper award at the IEEE International Conference on Social Computing 2010 (acceptance rate = 13%). School of Engineering Sections School of Engineering School of EngineeringVisit UsDiversity in EngineeringWomen in EngineeringEngineering with a MissionSTEMCurrent Student Resources AssociateProfessor, Department of Computer Engineering YuhongLiu_CV Dr. Liu's Research Publication Research Group Resources News School of Engineering 500 El Camino RealSanta Clara, CA 95053(408) 554-4000 Maps & Directions Contact Us SCU on Facebook SCU on Instagram SCU on Twitter SCU on Linkedin RESOURCES Emergency Info Careers Login Accessiblity iconAccessibility Title IX OUR SCHOOL Our Mission Event Calendar News Santa Clara University 2021 AccessibilityLogin|SCU on FacebookSCU on Twitter
