Raphael Rodrigues | Faculty at Rensselaer Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search rensselaer polytechnic institute Faculty Directory Academic Schools and Departments Research Centers You are hereHome Raphael Rodrigues Lecturer, Civil and Environmental Engineering Dr. Raphael Rodrigues is an Environmental Engineer graduated from the University of So Paulo (USP), in Brazil. After graduating, Raphael worked as an environmental consultant in projects of site assessments and remediation and also as an environmental auditor for So Paulos Environmental Protection Agency. The promising results Raphael obtained during his Ph.D. research, focused in modification of membrane filters for water treatment applications, granted him a fellowship to continue his research at the Harvard School of Engineering Sciences. After finishing his research and obtained his Ph.D., Dr. Rodrigues worked as an environmental consultant for water reclamation projects, being part of a team that designed and operated the first pilot unit for direct potable reuse of domestic wastewater in Brazil. Meanwhile, Dr. Rodrigues and also worked as Assistant Professor of Environmental Engineering at USP. Later in his career, Raphael moved to the United States and now is a Lecturer in Environmental Engineering at RPI. Dr. Rodrigues teaches Introduction to Environmental Engineering, Hydraulics and Hydrology, Solid and Hazardous Waste Management, Environmental Toxicology and Risk Analysis, Environmental Consulting and Site Assessments, Water Reuse Technologies, and Environmental Impact Assessments. Education Ph.D. in Civil and Environmental Engineering - Hydraulic Engineering and Sanitation, Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences / University of So Paulo, 2015 Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering, University of So Paulo, 2010 Research Focus Environmental Engineering, Site Assessments, Hazardous Waste Management Contact Information rodrir9@rpi.edu Linkedin Profile Select Works Clay Nanoparticles Composite Membranes Prepared with Three Different Polymers: Performance Evaluation Journal of Membrane and Separation Technology, v. 7, p. 1-11 UV-Hydrogen Peroxide Processes. Advanced Oxidation Processes for Waste Water Treatment. Academic Press Water reuse potential at heavy-duty vehicles washing facilities - The mass balance approach for conservative contaminants Journal of Cleaner Production, v. 166, p. 1226-1234Enhancing spiral-wound ultrafiltration performance for direct drinking water treatment through operational procedures improvement: A feasible option for the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region Desalination (Amsterdan), v. 307, p. 68-75, 2012 Search for Faculty: or Search by Research Focus: 110 Eighth Street Troy, NY USA 12180 (518) 276-6000 FOLLOW US SCHOOLS & PROGRAMS Architecture Business Engineering Humanities, Arts, & Social Sciences IT & Web Science Science Research RPI CONNECTIONS Admissions Alumni/ae & Friends Athletics Human Resources Library RPInfo Strategic Communications Veterans ENGAGE Apply Now Contact Us Give to Rensselaer Visit Campus Send Feedback Copyright Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) Media Policy | Web Privacy Policy | Student Consumer Information | Title IX Policy | Accessibility
