Caltech Aerospace (GALCIT) | H. Jane Bae Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search options GALCIT Caltech Department of Aerospace (GALCIT) About Overview Mission History & Facts Legends of GALCIT Honors and Awards Positions Available Visit Us Contact People Director Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Graduate Students Alumni Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Student Information Courses Research Research Areas Research Highlights Centers & Initiatives Labs & Facilities Seminars News & Events Lecture Series News Headlines Resources Contact Visit Us Contact Us Get Involved Faculty H. Jane Bae Assistant Professor of Aerospace Degrees and Appointments B.S., Caltech, 2011; Ph.D., Stanford University, 2018. Caltech, 2021-. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Kathleen Jackson 385 Firestone Laboratory (626) 395-2374 kjackson@caltech.edu Research Group Website Research Overview Professor Bae's research focuses on the physical understanding and modeling of structures associated with near-wall turbulence. Her main research goal is to develop high-fidelity models that reduce the computational cost to simulate high-Reynolds-number turbulent flows. These models will allow simulations to be utilized in the design cycle of wind farms and aircrafts and in predictions of atmospheric flows, reducing the overall time and effort associated with these processes. She also studies the physical mechanisms that generate and sustain turbulence, which, in turn, fuels new modeling approaches. She has interests in applying machine learning, information theory, and other novel methods to turbulence modeling. GALCIT News about H. Jane Bae CAST Awards Seed Funding to Three New Projects Read more news about H. Jane Bae Is this your profile? Faculty Joanna Austin H. Jane Bae Robert D. (Bobby) Braun Soon-Jo Chung John O. Dabiri Michael H. Dickinson Paul E. Dimotakis Morteza (Mory) Gharib Beverley J. McKeon Dan Meiron Sergio Pellegrino Dale I. Pullin Guruswami (Ravi) Ravichandran Ares J. Rosakis Joseph E. Shepherd Sandra M. Troian Michael Watkins Learn More Research Academics Location & Directions Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Course Descriptions For Our Department Community Portal Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 105-50, Pasadena, CA 91125 2021 Caltech. All rights reserved. Privacy Notice. Feedback? back to top
