About | The Taub Faculty of Computer Science, Technion Go TopSkip to content (access key 's') GENERAL INFO About the Faculty Magazine CS Library IT Services Industrial Affiliates Branding Useful Links Contact Info PEOPLE Faculty Students Staff Phone Directory Alumni Faculty Positions ACADEMICS Courses Teaching Schedule Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies RESEARCH Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Theses & Tech Reports EVENTS Events Colloquia & Seminars General Info About the Faculty The Henry and Marilyn Taub Faculty of Computer Science is the second largest academic unit in the Technion, with approximately 1,800 undergraduate students (about one-fifth of the total number of Technion students) and over 300 graduate students. It comprises over 50 Faculty members of international repute with expertise in a wide variety of fields. It is the largest Faculty of computer science in Israel and supplies the Israeli hi-tech industry with the highest caliber manpower. As one of the most popular Technion faculties it can select for admission the very best students. The Faculty engages in a wide range of research and teaching activities and constitutes a unique meeting point between science and technology. It provides basic computer training to the entire Technion community. A skilled professional staff of engineers, technicians and secretaries supports the Faculty's teaching and research. The Faculty conducts undergraduate first degree programs in computer science (three-year and four-year), software engineering, computer engineering, computer science and mathematics, computer science and physics, and Dual Degree: Medicine and Computer Science. Within the three-year study track in Computer Science, our students may also choose a program that specializes in Machine Learning and Data Analysis. Within the four-year track in Computer Science students can also choose the following programs: Cyber and Computer Systems Security and Computer Science with a focus on Bioinformatics. The Faculty also offers programs for M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees. The goal is to train students to become outstanding scientists and engineers, to provide them with basic knowledge and vast and thorough engineering qualifications to develop management skills and technology so that they can lead the present and future science-based industries. To obtain all this, the Faculty selects the best candidates and maintains high academic standards, providing the students with a broad and deep knowledge that will enable them to operate within the rapidly changing computer fields. The Henry and Marilyn Taub Faculty of Computer Science is located in the center of the campus in a modern and state o f the art building designed for the convenience of Faculty and studentsThe building's resources include, among others, auditoriums and classrooms equipped with the most advanced multimedia systems, a large multi-purpose center that enables a modern learning environment, and a modern library that serves as a contemporary learning center. It also has a broad infrastructure of teaching and research laboratories dealing with a variety of fields: robotics, computer vision, artificial intelligence, geometric processing, computer graphics and geometric computing, computer Communication networks, software systems, computer systems, natural languages processing, cyber and information computer security, learning and reasoning, Data and knowledge, information storage and memories, bioinformatics and quantum information processing. As part of its objective to encourage excellence, the Faculty holds a special program (SAMBA) that supports outstanding undergraduate students with scholarships. The program is intended to all CS registered students, of all tracks, including the joint tracks with other faculties. Research Areas Automata and Formal Languages Coding Complexity Computational Geometry Cryptology Distributed Computing Logic and Semantics Theory of Algorithms Database Theory Human-Computer Interaction Databases and Data Mining Distributed and Parallel Systems Hardware and Computer Architecture Networks, Communication and Systems Operating Systems & Virtualization Programming Languages Software and Hardware Verification Software Engineering Storage Systems Security Machine Learning Neural Networks and Deep Learning Logical and Probabilistic Reasoning Geometric Modeling Graphics Image Processing and Computer Vision Robotics and Complex Systems Scientific Computation and Numerical Algorithms Biological Computation Bioinformatics (Computer Science and Biology) Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing Quantum Information Processing (Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Physics and Chemistry) World Wide Web, Game Theory, Electronic Commerce, Crypto Currency, Computational Finance Excellence An international Review Committee has thoroughly reviewed the The Henry and Marilyn Taub Faculty of Computer Science in May 2018 and has submitted a report to the President of the Technion. Similarly to the previous conclusions of the 2000 and 2008 Review Committees, the new committee concluded again that the Technions Computer Science Faculty is a world-leading Faculty in computer science, consistently for 25 years. According to the report of the Council for Higher Education, the Faculty's curriculum is of the highest level. In a list of the most cited institutions in computer science published by CS-Ranking the Technion is ranked 18 world-wide in the field of Computer Science, for the last 20 years. In a list of the most cited institutions in computer science published by Thomson Scientific-indexed Computer Science Journal the Technion is ranked 12, following AT&T, IBM Corporation and Universities such as Berkeley, MIT and Stanford. The Council of Higher Education has completed in 2005 a report on the quality of teaching in all Israel Faculties of computer science, and noted the level of teaching at the Technion as particularly good compared with computer science faculties in Israel. Times Higher Education Magazine has ranked the Technion 25 in world university rankings of the top 50 universities for technology for 2007. :+972 4 829 4261 :+972 4 829 4316/4344/2206 :+972 4 829 4226 :+972 4 829 4345 , , 3200003Copyright 2020 by Computer Science Department, Technion. All rights reserved.Designed byINTERIAWeb Design & DevelopmentDean's Office:+972 4 829 4261Undergraduates:+972 4 829 4316/4344/2206Graduates:+972 4 829 4226Industrial Affiliates Program:+972 4 829 4345How to update informationAccessibility InformationCS Taub Building, Technion, Haifa 3200003, IsraelCopyright 2020 by Computer Science Department, Technion. All rights reserved.Designed by INTERIAWeb Design & Development
