Vukovic, Alex | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Vukovic, Alex AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Alex Vukovic E-Card Alex VukovicAdjunct ProfessorWork E-mail: Alex.vukovic@ic.gc.cahttp://www.crc.gc.ca/eic/site/069.nsf/eng/home Biography Dr. Alex Vukovic is Vice-President of Terrestrial Wireless Systems Research Branch at Communications Research Centre Canada (CRC). Currently, his focus is on executive leadership of innovative wireless network communication concepts, technologies and applications, as well as broadband radio communication building blocks, to best position and support the Canadian ICT sector, Industry Canada and Canadian economic development strategies. Dr. Vukovic has over 20 years in science and technology leadership in communications and network architectures acquired at industry, research laboratories and academia. Before joining CRC in 2001, Dr. Vukovic managed technology integration at Nortel, a multi-billion-dollar investment. Dr. Vukovic is an internationally recognized authority, technology adviser, industrial research project leader. In 2006, for example, he was selected to be a Canadian Technology Ambassador, representing Canada by helping further develop Canada's and Japan's technology relationship in photonics. He is also a distinguish speaker, leader of international committees, editor and author of over 100 journal and conference papers, and scientific and committee chairman. Recently, he was General Chair of the international Wireless and Optical Communications conference (2007 and 2008). In addition, Dr. Vukovic proudly represented CRC and Industry Canada at the international level by sharing his visionary thinking about future communication technologies (European Conference and Exhibition on Optical Communication 2006, 2007 and 2009). Dr. Vukovic has received national and international recognition for his leadership in science and technology, including the Nortel Gold Award, IEEE Award, NSERC Synergy Award (team), IASTED Achievement Award, Industry Canada Award and CRC's President Leadership Award (2009). He earned his M.A.Sc. degree in 1987 and his Ph.D. degree from combined studies at the University of Belgrade, Yugoslavia, and Friedrich - Alexander University, Germany, in 1990. Dr. Vukovic is an Adjunct Professor at the University of Ottawa, Senior Member of IEEE and a Professional Engineer in Ontario. He also completed Music Conservatorium for piano. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
