Ionescu, Dan | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Ionescu, Dan AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Dan Ionescu E-Card Dan IonescuProfessorDr. Eng.P.Eng.Room: CBY A-333Office: 613 562-5800 ext. 6209Work E-mail: ionescu@uOttawa.caWebsite View Dan Ionescu's profile Biography Dr. Ionescu joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering of the University of Ottawa in early 1985 where he has dedicated his activity to teaching and research until the present day. In 1992 he was visiting professor at the Ecole Nationale Superieure de Telecommunications, Paris, France, during one of his sabbatical leaves. He also spent a sabbatical month at the Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya in Barcelona, Spain. His research at the University of Ottawa spans over a few domains such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Vision, Distributed Computing and Network Control. His contributions to Expert Systems, Image Processing, Temporal Logic, Discrete Event and Real-Time Systems materialized in a series of papers, and an edited book. A series of industrial and governmental research grants were obtained. His research received support from CITO, Nortel, Newbridge, AT&T, Cplane, and NSERC. Dr. Ionescu founded in early 1988 the Machine Intelligence Research Laboratory at the University of Ottawa, and in 1999 the Network Computing and Control Research Laboratory (NCCT) which he presently directs. During his career at the University of Ottawa Prof. Ionescu and his collaborators have developed new methodologies in the area of Expert and Learning systems, Temporal Logic, Control of Discrete Event Systems, Image Processing and Machine Vision, where his team focussed among other subjects, on Object Identification, and 3-Dimensional Object Reconstruction. In the telecom era he has directed research on Network Management, Next Generation Network Architecture, Distributed Computing, and others. His design and implementation of the first distributed network management platform made the subject of tight collaborations with Nortel, Newbridge and U.S. companies. His vision on networking helped Telecom Ottawa to implement the first very high speed (10G) Ethernet Metro Area Network fully controlled by a software platform delivered by Diatem Networks, a company founded by Prof. Ionescu. His research team under his supervison has designed and implemented a next-generation network know as the NCIT*net 2. In recent years his research was focused on subjects related to web-based collaborative environments, and a complex platform called UC-IC was built. A lighter version Watch-Together was also created and a facebook application was made available to users. His collaboration with the IBM Center of Advanced Studies from Toronto led to theoretical and experimental developments in the area of Autonomic Computing. These were applied to the field of Cloud Computing. More recently his team was involved in Gesture Control, activity which produced a new 3D IR Camera, and a series of algorithms and applications to the control of electronic gaming, consumer electronic devices such as TVs, set-top boxes, or laptops, and mobile phones. (Mgestyk) Fields of Interest Network Computing and Control Design of Distributed System Software Real Time Systems Formal Methods Network and Distributed Systems Security Semantic Web Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
