Hall, Trevor J. | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Hall, Trevor J. AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Trevor Hall E-Card Trevor HallUniversity Research Chair in Photonic Circuits & Integration and ProfessorPh.D.MABARoom: ARC 347Office: 613-562-5800 ext. 2121Work E-mail: tjhall@uOttawa.cahttp://www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~thall/ View Trevor J. Hall's profile Biography Trevor Hall studied general engineering, specialising in electrical sciences, at Christ's College, Cambridge University, UK (1974-1977), where he was elected a scholar in 1976 and was awarded a BA degree in 1977 and MA in 1981. He conducted his postgraduate research in fibre optics at University College London where he was awarded a PhD degree in 1980. In 1979 he joined Cambridge Consultants Ltd as an optical physicist and then in 1980 joined Queen Elizabeth College London as a lecturer in Physics; moving to King's College London in 1984 following a merger. He was promoted to Reader in Physics in 1990. In 1993 he transferred to the Electronic Engineering Department of King's College London, to take up a position as Head of the Physical Electronics Research Group, and was subsequently promoted to Professor of Optoelectronics in 1994. He spent the year 1997-98 on sabbatical leave as a visiting professor at Cambridge University Engineering Department where he initiated his research into photonic packet switches. The desire to refocus his career into a research-intensive mode motivated his decision to take up a position of full professor at the University of Ottawa from August 2002. He has conducted research in the fields of fibre optics; electromagnetic scattering and inverse problems; synthetic aperture radar signal processing, image processing and neural networks; non-linear and diffractive optics; optoelectronic information processing; and optoelectronic circuit and packet switching systems. He has also made contributions to microfabrication and heterojunction bipolar transistor technology. He has over 200 publications including 100 papers in journals.The emphasis of his current research is on photonic networks and packet switches. He is author of five patents on packet switch architecture and allied optoelectronic technology. He has been involved in many national and European-wide industry / academic collaborations both as a technical contributor and as a project manager. In addition to his research interests, he has made contributions to academic leadership and management particularly in the areas of strategic planning; financial, physical & human resources. From 1993-1996, he was a member of the Executive of the Electronic Engineering Department, King's College London, with responsibility for resources. He was also a member of the College-wide Staffing Policy Committee and Chairman of the Technical Staff Panel. He has served on numerous UK Engineering & Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and Department of Industry (DTI) committees and panels in the Information Technology & Computer Science; Photonics; and Atomic & Molecular Physics programme areas. He was Chair of the Governing Body of a large locally managed secondary school in London from 1985-2002. He has acted as a consultant to Plessey (now Marconi), British Petroleum, Standard Telephone Laboratories (now Nortel Harlow UK), Fujitsu, and Qinetiq (formerly DERA & RSRE, Malvern UK). He has acted also as a project monitoring officer on behalf of the DTI, as an advisor to EPSRC on public awareness of science. He is a chartered engineer (C.Eng.) and a chartered physicist (C.Phys); a corporate member of the UK Institution of Electrical Engineers (MIEE); a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and a fellow of the UK Institute of Physics (F.Inst.P). He is Professor Emeritus in Optoelectronics, King's College London, University of London. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
