Dubois, Eric | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Dubois, Eric AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Eric Dubois E-Card Eric DuboisProfessor EmeritusPh.D.M.Eng.B.Eng. (honours) Room: CBY A620Office: 613-562-5800 ext. 6123Work E-mail: edubois@uOttawa.caWeb site View Eric Dubois's profile Biography Eric Dubois received the B.Eng. (honours) degree with great distinction and the M.Eng. degree from McGill University in 1972 and 1974, and the Ph.D. from the University of Toronto in 1978, all in electrical engineering. He joined the Institut national de la recherche scientifique (University of Quebec) in 1977, where he held the position of professor in the INRS-Tlcommunications centre in Montreal, Canada until 1998. From 1998 to 2015, he was Professor with the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (formerly the School of Information Technology and Engineering (SITE)) at the University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. He is now an Emeritus Professor. He was Vice-Dean (Research) and Secretary of the Faculty of Engineering from 2001 to 2004. From January 2006 to December 2008 he was Director of SITE. His research has centered on the compression and processing of still and moving images, and in multidimensional digital signal processing theory. His current research is focused on stereoscopic and multiview imaging, image sampling theory, image-based virtual environments and color signal processing. The research has been carried out in collaboration with such organizations as the Communications Research Centre, the National Research Council, the RCMP, and the Learning Objects Repositories Network (LORNET). Dubois is a Life Fellow of the IEEE, a Fellow of the Engineering Institute of Canada, an emeritus member of the Optical Society of America (OSA) and was a Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineering (2008-2016). He was recipient of the 2013 George S. Glinski Award for Excellence in Research from the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Ottawa and is corecipient of the 1988 Journal Award from Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers. He was a member of the editorial board of the EURASIP journal Signal Processing: Image Communication and was an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (1994-1998). He was technical program co-chair for the IEEE 2000 International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP) and a member of the organizing committee for the IEEE 2004 International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) and the IEEE 2015 ICIP. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
