Patry, Gilles | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Patry, Gilles AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Gilles Patry E-Card Gilles PatryEmeritus ProfessorPhDRoom: STE 4050Work E-mail: patry@uOttawa.ca Biography Gilles G. Patry was President and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ottawa from 2001 to 2008. Not only is he the first locally born and educated CEO of this University established, he is also the first to have extensive private-sector experience. That experience proved invaluable throughout Dr. Patrys tenure as President of the University of Ottawa. Gilles Patry is a proud alumnus of the University of Ottawa, where he earned BASc and MASc degrees in civil engineering in 1971 and 1973, respectively. In 1971, Dr. Patry began his professional life as a consulting engineer prior to becoming a civil engineering professor at l'cole Polytechnique de Montral (1978) and at McMaster University (1983-1993). In 1983, he added a PhD in civil engineering from the University of California, Davis. In 1985, he founded Hydromantis Inc., an international consulting firm specializing in the modelling and simulation of water and wastewater treatment facilities. In 1993, he returned to the University of Ottawa as the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering. He was appointed Vice-President, Academic in 1997, and President and Vice-Chancellor from 2001 to 2008. In 2002, he was elected Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineering. Gilles Patry was Associate Editor of the Journal of Environmental Engineering and Science from 2001 to 2005. Gilles Patry specialises in the field of modelling, simulation and control of environmental systems, in general, and of wastewater treatment plants, in particular. He is the author of more than 125 peer-reviewed journal and conference papers. His paper entitled Dynamic Modelling of the Clarification-Thickening Process co-authored with I. Takcs and D. Nolasco, published in 1991, was recently recognized (March 2006) as one of the 10 most significant groundbreaking papers in the 40 year publication history of Water Research - the premier scientific journal in water research. In June 2008, Dr. Patry received an Honorary Doctorate in Engineering from the University of Waterloo. In November 2008, he was appointed President Emeritus by the Board of Governors of the University of Ottawa. In 2009, Dr. Patry received an Honorary Degree, D.Sc. (Hon.) from McMaster University; he also was the recipient of the title Chevalier de lOrdre de la Pliade from the Assemble parlementaire de la francophonie . Gilles Patry is a member of a number of Boards, including the Ontario Centres of Excellence (OCE), the Canadian Merit Scholarship Foundation, and the Canadian Water Network. He is a member of the Advisory Board of the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN) and has been appointed by Treasury Board to the Audit Committee of the National Research Council of Canada. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
