Abielmona, Rami | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Abielmona, Rami AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Rami Abielmona E-Card Rami AbielmonaAdjunct ProfessorRoom: STE 4047Office: 613-562-5800 ext. 2176Work E-mail: rabielmo@uOttawa.cahttp://www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~rabielmo Biography Dr. Rami Abielmona is the Vice-President of Research & Engineering at Larus Technologies Corporation, and is responsible for all research and development of software, hardware, and products, as well as the management and direction of the research team. Dr. Abielmona joined Larus in 2007 to lead the integration of software engineering corporate knowledge with research in sensor networking, multi-sensor data fusion and computationally intelligent computing architectures, resulting in the innovative Larus Total::Insight product, which is a patented Decision Support System. Dr. Abielmona received his B.A.Sc., M.A.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in computer and electrical engineering, from the School of Information Technology and Engineering at the University of Ottawa, where he currently serves as an Adjunct Professor. He was a CMC Success Story in 2005 for his Ph.D. research. He received the NSERC Industrial Research and Development Fellowship (IR&DF) in 2007 and the IEEE MGA Achievement Award in 2008. He was one of the recipients of the Ottawa Business Journal (OBJ) Top 40 Under 40 Award in 2011. He was also named as the Part-Time Professor of the Year at both the Faculty of Engineering and the University of Ottawa in 2012. Recently, he was awarded the IEEE Ottawa Section Outstanding Volunteer Award in 2014. He also became a licensed Professional Engineer in Ontario in 2008, as well as a Senior Member of the IEEE in 2011. He is currently the Past Chair of the IEEE Ottawa Section, the Chair of the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society Security, Surveillance and Defense Applications Task Force and the Chair of the local IEEE Computer Society chapter. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
