Yagoub, Mustapha C.E. | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Yagoub, Mustapha C.E. AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Mustapha Yagoub E-Card Mustapha YagoubProfessorPh.D.SM-IEEEP.Eng.ing.Room: CBY A-614Office: 613 562-5800 ext. 6789Work E-mail: myagoub@uOttawa.caWebsite View Mustapha C.E. Yagoub's profile Biography Mustapha C.E. Yagoub received the Dipl.-Ing. degree in Electronics and the Magister degree in Telecommunications, both from the cole Nationale Polytechnique, Algiers, Algeria, in 1979 and 1987, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree from the Institut National Polytechnique, Toulouse, France, in 1994. After few years working in industry as a design engineer, he joined the Institute of Electronics, Universit des Sciences et de la Technologie Houari Boumdiene, Algiers, Algeria, first as Lecturer during 1983-1991 and then as Assistant Professor during 1994-1999. From 1996 to 1999, he has been head of the communication department. From 1999 to 2001, he was a visiting scholar with the Department of Electronics, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada, working on neural networks applications in microwave areas. In 2001, he joined the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada, where he is currently a Professor. He has authored or coauthored over 300 publications in these topics in international journals and referred conferences. He authored Conception de circuits linaires et non linaires micro-ondes (Cpadues, Toulouse, France, 2000), and co-authored Computer Manipulation and Stock Price Trend Analysis (Heilongjiang Education Press, Harbin, China, 2005). Dr. Yagoub is a senior member of the IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques Society, a member of the Professional Engineers of Ontario, Canada, and a member of the Ordre des ingnieurs du Qubec, Canada. Fields of Interest RF/microwave CAD RFID design neural networks for high frequency applications planar antennas applied electromagnetics. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
