Martin Bouchard | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Martin Bouchard AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Martin Bouchard E-Card Martin BouchardProfessoring.(OIQ)Ph.D.SMIEEERoom: STE 5096Office: 613 562-5800 ext. 6190Work E-mail: Martin.Bouchard@uOttawa.caWebsite Profile Biography Martin Bouchard received the B.Ing., M.Sc.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from Universit de Sherbrooke (Sherbrooke, Qc) in 1993, 1995 and 1997 respectively. He worked in an instrumentation group at Bechtel-Lavalin in 1991 for the construction of the Lauralco alumine plant (now Alcoa, Deschambault-Grondines, Qc), and at CAE Electronics (Montral, Qc) in 1992-1993 for firmware development in a flight simulator visual system. From 1993 to 1997, he worked as a research engineer at Universit de Sherbrooke for real-time implementation of DSP-based adaptive digital controllers. From 1995 to 1997, he also worked as a DSP engineer and researcher for SoftdB Inc. (Qubec, Qc), which he co-founded and which is still in operation today. In January 1998, he joined the School of Information Technology and Engineering (now the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science) at the University of Ottawa (Ottawa, On.), initially as an Assistant Professor and later as an Associate Professor (2002) and a Professor (2008). He served as acting School Director for 12 months in 2005, as Coordinator of graduate programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering from 2001 to 2003, as the Associate Director of the Ottawa-Carleton Institute for Biomedical Engineering from 2007 to 2009, and as the Secretary of the Faculty of Engineering from 2007 to 2010. Since June 2011, Dr. Bouchard also served as Associate Dean at the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies, University of Ottawa. Dr. Bouchard was the recipient of the 2007 University of Ottawa Faculty of Engineering John V. Marsh Award for Excellence in Teaching. In recent years, Dr. Bouchard has conducted research activities with the Communications Research Center (CRC, Ottawa, On.), DevBrio Inc. (Gatineau, Qc.), IWatchLife Inc. (Ottawa, On.), Siemens Audiologische Technik GmbH (Erlangen, Germany), SoftdB Inc. (Qubec, Qc), Nortel (Ottawa, On.) and Bell Canada (Ottawa, On.), and he has conducted consulting activities with Prospectair (Gatineau, Qc.), THEM-Geophysics (Gatineau, Qc.), Orica Mining Services (Brownsburg, Qc.), Communications Research Center (CRC, Ottawa, On.), and Lumic Electronics (now Cognivue, Ottawa, On.). He also served on the advisory board of Thunder Creative Technologies Inc. (Malibu, CA). Dr. Bouchard has served as a member of the Speech and Language Technical Committee (SLTC, IEEE Signal Processing Society, 2009-2011), as an Associate Editor for the EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech and Music Processing (2006-2011), and an Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks (2008-2009). He has also served as a reviewer for numerous journals and conferences. Dr. Bouchard has supervised over 30 graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, and he has published over 35 journal papers and 70 peer-reviewed papers in conference proceedings. Some of his current research interests are speech and signal enhancement (including PSD and AR model estimation, monaural and binaural noise reduction, beamforming, blind source separation), and high quality low-bit rate sparse coding of audio signals. He is a member of Ordre des Ingnieurs du Qubec (OIQ), a Senior Member of the IEEE and a Full Member of the AES. Fields of Interest Signal processing methods in general, especially for speech, audio and acoustics Speech and signal enhancement (monaural and binaural noise reduction, PSD estimation, beamforming, blind source separation) Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
