Berini, Pierre | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Berini, Pierre AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Pierre Berini E-Card Pierre BeriniUniversity Research Chair in Surface Plasmon Photonics and ProfessorPh.D. M.Sc.A. B.E.Sc. B.Sc.Room: ARC 350AOffice: 613-562-5800 ext. 6316Work E-mail: pberini@uOttawa.cahttp://www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~berini/index.html Biography Pierre Berini received his Ph.D. and M.Sc.A. degrees in Electrical Engineering from cole Polytechnique de Montral, and his B.E.Sc. and B.Sc. degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, respectively, from the University of Western Ontario. . Dr. Berini is a Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Ottawa and is the Founder and Chief Technology Officer of Spectalis Corp., a venture capital backed company commercializing surface plasmon devices. He is a Canada Foundation for Innovation researcher and has received an URSI Young Scientist Award (1999), a Premier of Ontario Research Excellence Award (2000), the University of Ottawa Young Researcher of the Year Award (2001), and an NSERC E. W. R. Steacie Memorial Fellowship (2008). Dr. Berini is a senior member of the IEEE and a member of the OSA. He is an Associate (Topical) Editor of Optics Express. He is the author or co-author of 17 patents (issued and pending), and of numerous publications in scientific journals and conference proceedings. His broad research interests include optics and photonics, electromagnetics, numerical methods, and the microfabrication of integrated optical structures. His research is currently focused on the area of plasmonics and related device applications including biosensors. Dr. Berini consults for industry, venture capital and grant councils.berini@eecs.uottawa.ca Fields of Interest General research interests: Optics and photonics Electromagnetic theory and numerical modeling Semiconductor devices Microwave circuits Specific research interests: Surface plasmons and their applications Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
