ren, Tuncer | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Study Campus Life Research About us Current students Alumni Give uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / ren, Tuncer AboutEvents and ceremoniesEvents Calendar News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeEnrolment Information Virtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsCourses Graduate thesis supervisors Microprograms Online Engineering Management Programs Professional development: cloud computing Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic UnitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering School of Engineering Design and Teaching Innovation School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Alumni and partnersPartnerships and collaboration Engineering Job Board Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Tuncer ren E-Card Tuncer renProfessor EmeritusRoom: STE 4009DOffice: 613-562-5800 ext. 2193Work E-mail: toren@uOttawa.cahttp://www.eecs.uOttawa.ca/~oren Biography Dr. ren is a professor emeritus of computer science at the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science of the University of Ottawa, Canada. He has been involved with simulation since 1965. Dr. ren's Ph.D. is in Systems Engineering from the University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ. His basic education is from Galatasaray Lisesi, a high school founded in his native Istanbul in 1481 and in Mechanical Engineering at the Technical University of Istanbul. His research interests include advanced methodologies for modeling and simulation; agent-directed simulation; agents for cognitive and emotive simulations especially for conflict management training (including representations of human personality, understanding, misunderstanding, emotions, anger triggers and anger mechanisms); reliability, QA, failure avoidance, ethics; as well as body of knowledge and terminology of simulation. He has over 450 publications (over 140 in the 2000s) some translated in Chinese, German and Turkish. He has contributed to over 400 conferences and seminars held in over 30 countries. He has delivered nearly 200 invited talks/presentations. In the 2000s alone, he has contributed to over 150 events. Dr. ren has been recognized, by IBM Canada, as a pioneer of computing in Canada where he has been also the Founding Chair of the Executive Committee of the Chairmen of the Canadian Computer Science Departments. He received "Information Age Award" from the Turkish Ministry of Culture and plaques and certificates of appreciation from organizations including ACM, AECL, AFCEA, NATO, and Turkish General Staff. In 2011, he is inducted to "SCS Modeling and Simulation Hall of Fame" (Lifetime Achievement Award). Dr. ren had received the Distinguished Service Award in 2006 and Distinguished Professional Award in 2003 from the same learned society where he is also a distinguished lecturer. Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada Library Immediate support News A-Z Index Give Careers Book an event Accessibility hub Hire a CO-OP student Media Campus tours Parking and sustainable transportation Campus map Library Accessibility hub Immediate support Hire a CO-OP student News A-Z Index Media Give Campus tours Careers Parking and sustainable transportation Book an event Campus map On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
