Cole A. DeForest | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Cole A. DeForest Weyerhaeuser Endowed Associate Professor Chemical Engineering Associate Professor Bioengineering Adjunct Associate Professor Chemistry Chemical Engineering Associate Chair for Graduate Studies ProfCole@uw.edu (206) 543-5961 BNS 347 DeForest Research Group Education Ph.D. Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Colorado, Boulder, 2011 B.S.E. (magna cum laude) Chemical Engineering, Princeton University, 2006 Previous appointments Postdoctoral Research Scholar, California Institute of Technology, 2012-2013 Research Statement While the potential for biomaterial-based strategies to improve and extend the quality of human health through tissue regeneration and the treatment of disease continues to grow, the majority of current strategies rely on outdated technology initially developed and optimized for starkly different applications. Therefore, the DeForest Group seeks to integrate the governing principles of rational design with fundamental concepts from material science, synthetic chemistry, and stem cell biology to conceptualize, create, and exploit next-generation materials to address a variety of health-related problems. We are currently interested in the development of new classes of user-programmable hydrogels whose biochemical and biophysical properties can be tuned in time and space over a variety of scales. Our work relies heavily on the utilization of cytocompatible bioorthogonal chemistries, several of which can be initiated with light and thereby confined to specific sub-volumes of a sample. By recapitulating the dynamic nature of the native tissue through 4D control of the material properties, these synthetic environments are utilized to probe and better understand basic cell function as well as to engineer complex heterogeneous tissue. Specific areas of research include: User-Programmable Biomaterials for Directing Dynamic Stem Cell Fate Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering Controlled Delivery of Therapeutics to Treat Disease Tool Development for Enhanced Proteomic Studies More information can be found on the DeForest Research Group website. Graduate and Postdoctoral ResearchersWe are always on the lookout for creative, driven individuals looking to help make a difference in how we think about basic biology and the treatment of disease. Please check our website for current openings.Undergraduate ResearchersUndergraduates are an integral and important part of the research taking place within the DeForest Research Group. Self-motivated students in Chemical Engineering, Bioengineering, Chemistry, and Materials Science & Engineering are encouraged to contact Prof. DeForest by email with their CV and a short statement of interest. Preference will be given to underclassmen with the intent of performing research over the duration of their time at UW, though all applicants will be considered. Select publications Shadish, J.A., Strange, A.C. & DeForest, C.A. Genetically Encoded Photocleavable Linkers for Patterned Protein Release from Biomaterials. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 141, 15619-15625 (2019). Shadish, J.A., Benuska, G.M. & DeForest, C.A. Bioactive Site-Specifically Modified Proteins for 4D Patterning of Gel Biomaterials. Nature Materials, 18, 1005-1014 (2019). Badeau, B.A., Comerford, M.P., Arakawa, C.K., Shadish, J.A. & DeForest, C.A. Engineered Modular Biomaterial Logic Gates for Environmentally Triggered Therapeutic Delivery. Nature Chemistry, 10, 251-258 (2018). Ruskowitz, E.R. & DeForest, C.A. Photoresponsive Biomaterials for Targeted Drug Delivery and 4D Cell Culture. Nature Reviews Materials, 3, 17087 (2018) DOI: 10.1038/natrevmats.2017.87. Arakawa, C.K., Badeau, B.A., Zheng, Y. & DeForest, C.A. Multicellular Vascularized Engineered Tissues through User-Programmable Biomaterial Photodegradation. Advanced Materials, 29, 1703156 (2017). DeForest, C.A. & Tirrell, D.A. A photoreversible protein-patterning approach for guiding stem cell fate in three-dimensional gels. Nat. Mater. 14, 523531 (2015). DeForest, C.A. & Anseth, K.S. Photoreversible Patterning of Biomolecules within Click-based Hydrogels. Angewandte Chemie International Edition, 51, 1816-1819 (2012). DeForest, C.A. & Anseth, K.S. Cytocompatible Click-based Hydrogels with Dynamically-Tunable Properties through Orthogonal Photoconjugation and Photocleavage Reactions. Nature Chemistry, 3, 925-931 (2011). DeForest, C.A., Polizzotti, B.D. & Anseth, K.S. Sequential Click Reactions for Synthesizing and Patterning 3D Cell Microenvironments. Nature Materials 8, 659-664 (2009). Honors & awards UW College of Engineering Junior Faculty Award, 2020 Society for Biomaterials Young Investigator Award, 2020 Emerging Investigator Award, Royal Society of Chemistry, Biomaterials Science, 2019 Early Career Award in Cancer Research, Safeway and the Cancer Consortium, 2018 35 Under 35 Award, Bioengineering Category, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2017 Emerging Investigator Award, Journal of Materials Chemistry B, 2017 Young Investigator Award, Polymeric Materials: Science & Eng. Division, American Chemical Society, 2017 NSF CAREER Award, 2017 UW Presidential Distinguished Teaching Award, 2016 News Patterned platforms for tissue engineering A new approach useslasers and molecular tethers to instruct cells how to grow on a scaffold in the correct configuration Read Article Engineered capillaries propel malaria research With a new microvessel fabrication technique, engineers and pathologists gain deeper understanding of infected blood cellcirculation Read Article Pioneers in Biomaterials How visionary chemical engineers at the UW set the stage for decades of biomaterials innovation Read Article DeForest selected for NAE symposium Professor Cole DeForest will participate in the NAE Frontiers of Engineering symposium, which brings together early-career engineers to promote the transfer of new techniques and approaches across engineering disciplines. Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Health & Biotechnology Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests User-Programmable Biomaterials For Directing Dynamic Stem Cell Fate Biomolecular and Tissue Engineering Controlled Delivery of Therapeutics to Treat Disease Tool Development For Enhanced Proteomic Studies Courses taught ChemE 355: Biological Frameworks for Engineers ChemE 460: Polymer Chemistry Laboratory ChemE 465: Reaction Engineering and Reactor Design ChemE 511/ BioE 511: Biomaterials Seminar Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
