Lilo Pozzo | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Lilo Pozzo Boeing-Roundhill Professor for Excellence in Engineering Chemical Engineering Professor Materials Science & Engineering Interim Chair, Materials Science and Engineering dpozzo@u.washington.edu (206) 685-8536 ROB 302F Pozzo Research Group Education Ph.D. Chemical Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University, 2006 B.S. Chemical Engineering, University of Puerto Rico Mayaguez, 2001 Previous appointments Postdoctoral Associate, NIST Center for Neutron Research, 2006-2007 Research Statement Research in the Pozzo group centers on the development, measurement and control of self-assembly processes for soft materials over nanometer and micrometer scales. This manipulation of complex material structures results in novel properties that optimize their use in engineering applications. Current projects High-Throughput Experimentation (HTE) and Data Science for Materials Design Laboratory automation tools are being developed and used by the Pozzo laboratory to accelerate the pace of materials discovery. Robotic tools and efficient experimental screening methods allow us to execute experiments and to collect data with far increased efficiency. This enables the application of advanced analytical tools including supervised/unsupervised learning, dimensionality reduction and classification/sorting to extract additional value from data streams and to tackle increasingly complex problems with many interdependent factors. Functional Emulsions We are broadly interested in the synthesis of emulsions and in understanding the fundamental science that controls their behavior for uses in targeted applications. For example, emulsion contrast agents can undergo a phase transition from liquid to vapor upon irradiation with light and/or ultrasound fields. The formation of this vapor cavity creates increased contrast for ultrasound imaging and can also be used for active thrombolysis, the mechanical destruction of an occlusion (clot) inside blood vessels. Materials for Energy Storage and Conversion High-throughput experiments and data science tools are also being used to develop the next generation of electrolytes for grid-scale electrochemical energy storage from earth-abundant materials. Moreover, the group is also developing new mechanisms to study and control the structure and properties of conjugated polymers and of blends of conjugated and engineering polymers to achieve functional materials with optimal mechanical, electrochemical and optical performance. Select publications On-Demand Sonochemical Synthesis of Ultrasmall and Magic-Size CdSe Quantum Dots in Single-Phase and Emulsion Systems, R Kastilani, B. Bishop, V. Holmberg, LD Pozzo, Langmuir, 35 (50), 16583 (2019) Contrast-variation Time-resolved SANS Analysis of Oil Exchange Kinetics Between Oil-in-water Emulsions Stabilized by Anionic Surfactants YT Lee, LD Pozzo, Langmuir, 35 (47), 15192 (2019) Assessment of molecular dynamics simulations for amorphous poly(3-hexylthiophene) using neutron and X-ray scattering experiments CM Wolf, KH Kanekal, YY Yimer, M Tyagi, S Omar-Diallo, V Pakhnyuk, CK Luscombe, J Pfaendtner and LD Pozzo, Soft Matter, 15, 5067 - 5083 (2019) Ultrasound-based formation of nano-Pickering emulsions investigated via in-situ SAXS YT Lee, DS. Li, J. Ilavsky, I. Kuzmenko, GS. Jeng, M. O'Donnell, LD. Pozzo, Journal of Colloid and Interface Science, 15, 281. (2019) Spontaneous Nucleation of Stable Perfluorocarbon Emulsions for Ultrasound Contrast Agents DS Li, S Schneewind, M Bruce, Z Khaing, M ODonnell, LD Pozzo, Nano Letters, 10.1021/acs.nanolett.8b03585 (2018) Polypyrrole Coated Perfluorocarbon Nanoemulsions as a Sono-Photoacoustic Contrast Agent DS Li, SJ Yoon, I Pelivanov, M Frenz, M ODonnell, LD Pozzo, Nanoletters, 17(10), 6184 (2017) Electric field directed formation of aligned conjugated polymer fibers, Y Xi, LD Pozzo, Soft Matter, 13 (21), 3894, (2017) Solvatochromism and Conformational Changes in Fully Dissolved Poly (3-alkylthiophene)s GM Newbloom, SM Hoffmann, AF West, MC Gile, P Sista, HKC Cheung, J. Pfaendtner, LD Pozzo, Langmuir, 31 (1), 458 (2015) Pickering Emulsions Stabilized by Nanoparticle Surfactants, K. Larson-Smith, D.C. Pozzo, Langmuir, 28(32): 11725 (2012) Scalable Synthesis of Self-Assembling Nanoparticle Clusters Based on Controlled Steric Interactions K. Larson-Smith and D.C. Pozzo, Soft Matter, 7, 5339 (2011) Honors & awards DOE Women in Clean Energy C3E Education Award, 2018 UW College of Engineering Distinguished Teaching Award, 2018 UW Latinx Faculty Recognition Award, 2017 Department of Energy Early Career Award, 2013 UW Outstanding Undergraduate Research Mentor Award, 2013 News Professor Lilo Pozzo named interim chair of MSE "Lilos dedication to leadership and service, as well as her collaborations with MSE faculty to accelerate the pace of materials discovery, make her uniquely qualified for this role." Read Article How to build a network of biofactories Advances in synthetic biology and biomaterials open up exciting prospects for distributed manufacturing of drugs, food products, and other commodities Read Article Just add sunlight, air, and water An award-winning capstone design's simple formula for generating medical oxygen in underserved areas Read Article New funding for underrepresented students ChemE's Lilo Pozzo is co-PI on a grant thatwill fund scholarships for approximately 80 undergraduate and graduate students over a five-year period Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Energy Systems Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Colloidal and Nano Materials Polymer Self-Assembly Neutron and X-ray Scattering Ultrasound and Sonochemistry High-Throughput Experimentation and Laboratory Automation Courses taught ChemE 340: Heat Transfer ChemE 437: Unit Operations Laboratory 2 ChemE 455: Surface and Colloid Science Laboratory ChemE 497: Chemical Product Design ChemE 498: Kitchen Engineering ChemE 556: Colloidal Systems Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
