Samson A. Jenekhe | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Samson A. Jenekhe Boeing-Martin Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Chemistry jenekhe@uw.edu (206) 543-5525 BNS 365 Biography Samson A. Jenekhe is the Boeing-Martin Professor of Chemical Engineering and Professor of Chemistry at the University of Washington, beginning in 2000. He received his Ph.D. in chemical engineering from the University of Minnesota. Prior to his current positions, he was Principal Research Scientist, Honeywell Inc., from 1984-1987 and Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Rochester from 1988-2000. His scientific expertise includes organic/flexible electronics, polymer-based photovoltaics, organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) for displays and lighting, energy conversion and storage systems, molecular self-assembly and nanotechnology, and synthesis and properties of semiconducting polymers. He is the author of over 300 research publications, three edited books, and 28 patents. He is a member of the American Physical Society (APS), the American Institute for Chemical Engineers (AIChE), the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the American Chemical Society, and the Materials Research Society. Jenekhe has served on editorial advisory boards of several scientific journals, including Macromolecules and Chemistry of Materials. Jenekhe is a Fellow of the APS, the AAAS, and the Royal Society of Chemistry. He was awarded the Charles M. A. Stine Award for Excellence in Materials Science and Engineering from the AIChE in 2014 and was elected Member of the Washington State Academy of Sciences in 2013. He was awarded the Polymer Physics Prize in 2021 by the American Physical Society. Education PhD, Chemical Engineering, University of Minnesota, 1985 MA, Philosophy, University of Minnesota, 1981 MS, Chemical Engineering, University of Minnesota, 1980 BS, Engineering, Michigan Technological University, 1977 Previous appointments Professor of Chemical Engineering, Materials Science, and Chemistry, University of Rochester, 1994-2000 Assistant/Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, University of Rochester, 1988-1994 Principal Research Scientist, Honeywell Inc., Physical Sciences Center, 1984-1987 Research Statement Overview of Our Research The Jenekhe Research Laboratory is focused on basic and applied studies in the chemistry, physics, and engineering applications of organic/polymer semiconductors. We combine synthesis of well-defined semiconducting polymers and small-molecule organic semiconductors with detailed investigation of their charge transport, photophysics, electroluminescence, and photovoltaic properties towards understanding of underlying structure-property-morphology relationships. We explore applications of organic/polymer semiconductors in organic photovoltaics, organic/flexible electronics, energy conversion and storage systems, light-emitting diodes for displays and lighting, and nanotechnology. Polymer Solar Cells Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) represents a promising approach to low cost, scalable, and sustainable solar energy based electrical power generation technologies. Although much progress has been made in developing polymer-based single-junction OPV devices, their power conversion efficiencies are still substantially below the theoretical (thermodynamic) efficiency limit (~25-27%). Our goal is to close this efficiency gap through major innovations in organic/polymer semiconductor materials, nanoscale control of blend morphology and OPV device engineering. Our efforts in the molecular and morphology engineering of high-performance OPV devices include: design and synthesis of narrow optical bandgap small-molecule semiconductors design and synthesis of narrow optical bandgap n-type and p-type semiconducting polymers characterization of electronic structures of conjugated polymers via electrochemistry and photoelectron spectroscopy scanning probe microscopy and grazing-incidence wide-angle x-ray scattering investigation of photovoltaic polymer blend morphology fabrication and characterization of polymer solar cells investigation of photophysics, charge transport, and charge recombination processes in polymer solar cells Organic Electronics and Optoelectronics Semiconducting polymers and small-molecule organic semiconductors are enabling printed and flexible electronics and optoelectronics for diverse engineering applications. Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) are finding commercial uses in displays and efficient lighting. Organic field-effect transistors (OFETs) are finding applications in large-area printed electronics while organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs) are used in bioelectronics. Other important polymer semiconductor based devices of growing interest include thermoelectric devices, photodetectors, and high-density organic memories. Our labs goal is to enable high performance organic electronics and optoelectronics for applications in diverse technologies through major advances in organic/polymer semiconductor materials, organic/organic interfaces, and device engineering. Our specific approaches in these areas include: design and synthesis of high carrier mobility n-type and p-type semiconducting polymers for OFETs, OECTs and thermoelectrics fabrication and characterization of OFETs and OECTs molecular design and synthesis of efficient light-emitting organic semiconductors for OLEDs design and synthesis of electron transport (n-type) materials for OLEDs and phosphorescent OLEDs molecular and interface engineering of organic electronic devices fabrication and characterization of OLEDs characterization of electronic structures of organic semiconductors via electrochemistry and photoelectron spectroscopy investigation of structure-property relationships Select publications Kolhe, N. B.; West, S. M.; Tran, D. K.; Ding, X.; Kuzuhara, D.; Yoshimoto, N.; Koganezawa, T.; Jenekhe, S. A. Designing High Performance Nonfullerene Electron Acceptors with Rylene Imides for Efficient Organic Photovoltaics, Chem. Mater. 2020, 32, 195-204. Tran, D. K.; Kolhe, N. B.; Hwang, Y. J.; Kuzuhara, D.; Yoshimoto, N.; Koganezawa, T.; Jenekhe, S. A. Effects of a Fluorinated Donor Polymer on the Morphology, Photophysics, and Performance of All-Polymer Solar Cells based on Naphthalene Diimide-Arylene Copolymer Acceptors, ACS Appl. Mater. Interf. 2020, 12, 16490-16502. Tran, D. K.; Robitaille, A.; Hai, I. J., Ding, X.; Kuzuhara, D.; Koganezawa, T.; Chu, Y.-C.; Leclerc, M.; Jenekhe, S. A. Elucidating the Impact of Molecular Weight on Morphology, Charge Transport, Photophysics and Performance of All-Polymer Solar Cells, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 21070-21083. Xu, K.; Sun, H.; Ruoko, T. P.; Wang, G.; Kroon, R.; Kolhe, N. B.; Puttisong, Y.; Liu, X.; Fazzi, D.; Shibata, K.; Yoshida, H.; Chen, W. M.; Fahlman, M.; Kemerink, M.; Jenekhe, S. A.; Muller, C.; Berggren, M.; Fabiano, S. Ground-state electron transfer in all-polymer donor-acceptor heterojunctions, Nature Mater. 2020, 19, 738-744. Kolhe, N. B.; Tran, D. K.; Lee, H.-J.; Kuzuhara, D.; Yoshimoto, N.; Koganezawa, T.; Jenekhe, S. A. New Random Copolymer Acceptors Enable Additive-Free Processing of 10.1% Efficient All-Polymer Solar Cells with Near Unity Internal Quantum Efficiency, ACS Energy Lett. 2019, 4, 11621170. Kim, F. S.; Park, C. H.; Jenekhe, S. A. Effects of Ladder Structure on the Electronic Properties and Field-effect Transistor Performance of Poly(benzobisimidazobenzophenanthroline), Org. Electronics 2019, 69, 301-307. Kim, K.-Y.; Park, M. S.; Na, Y.; Choi, J.-W.; Jenekhe, S. A.; Kim, F. S. Preparation and application of polystyrene-grafted alumina core-shell nanoparticles for dielectric passivation in solution-processed polymer thin film transistors, Org. Electronics 2019, 65, 305-310. Xin, H.; Yan, W.; Jenekhe, S. A. Color Stable White Organic Light-Emitting Diodes Utilizing a Blue-Emitting Electron-Transport Layer, ACS Omega 2018, 3, 1254912553. Murari, N. M.; Hwang, Y.-J.; Kim, F. S.; Jenekhe, S. A. Organic Nonvolatile Memory Devices utilizing Intrinsic Charge-Trapping Phenomena in an n-Type Polymer Semiconductor, Org. Electronics 2016, 31, 104-110. Jeon, S. O.; Earmme, T.; Jenekhe, S. A. New Sulfone-Based Electron-Transport Materials with High Triplet Energy for Highly Efficient Blue Phosphorescent Organic Light-Emitting Diodes, J. Mater. Chem. C 2014, 2, 10129 10137. Li, H.; Kim, F. S.; Ren, G.; Hollenbeck, E. C.; Subramaniyan, S.; Jenekhe, S. A. Tetraazabenzodifluoranthene Diimides: New Building Blocks for Solution Processable N-Type Organic Semiconductors, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 5513-5517. Li, H.; Kim, F. S.; Ren, G.; Jenekhe, S. A. High Mobility n-Type Conjugated Polymers for Organic Electronics, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 14920-14923. Earmme, T.; Jenekhe, S. A. Solution-Processed Alkali Metal Salt Doped Electron-Transport Layers for High Performance Phosphorescent Organic Light-Emitting Diodes, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2012, 22, 5126-5136. Kim, F. S.; Guo, X.; Watson, M. D.; Jenekhe, S. A. High-Mobility Ambipolar Transistors and High-Gain Inverters from a Donor-Acceptor Copolymer Semiconductor, Adv. Mater. 2010, 22, 478-482. Honors & awards Polymer Physics Prize, American Physical Society, 2021 Highly Cited Researcher in Materials Science, Clarivate Analytics, 2017-2018 Worlds Most Influential Scientific Minds list, Clarivate Analytics/Thomson Reuters, 2015-2017 Elected Fellow, Royal Society of Chemistry (United Kingdom), 2015 Charles M. A. Stine Award for Excellence in Materials Science and Engineering, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2014 Elected Member, Washington Academy of Sciences, 2013 Elected Fellow, American Physical Society, 2003 Elected Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), 2003 News Jenekhe featured as C&EN Trailblazer Jenekhe's pioneering polymer work paved the way for commercial OLEDs Read Article Jenekhe wins APS Polymer Physics Prize Professor Sam Jenekhe is recognized for his influential work on semiconducting polymers for electronic and photovoltaic applications Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Energy Systems Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Organic Photovoltaics: Materials synthesis and device engineering Organic/Flexible Electronics: Materials synthesis and charge transport Organic Light-Emitting Diodes: Materials synthesis and device engineering Synthesis and Properties of Semiconducting Polymers Energy Conversion and Storage Systems Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
