Neda Bagheri | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Neda Bagheri Associate Professor Chemical Engineering Associate Professor Biology Washington Research Foundation Distinguished Investigator Senior Advisory Bioinformatics Scientist, Allen Institute for Cell Science nbagheri@uw.edu LSB 561 Biography Neda Bagheri earned her doctorate in Electrical Engineering from the University of California in Santa Barbara. Her focus on control theory and dynamics piqued her interest in biology. Bagheri believes that engineering principles can be employed to better understand, predict, and control complex biological functions, and that these principles need to be informed by biology. After completing a postdoc in Biological Engineering at MIT, she joined the Chemical & Biological Engineering faculty at Northwestern University where she founded the Modeling Dynamic Life Systems (MoDyLS) Lab. In 2019, she was recruited to the University of Washington where she has a joint appointment in Biology and Chemical Engineering, as well as a position at the Allen Institute for Cell Science. In recognition for her research accomplishments and vision, Bagheri was awarded a National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2017), and was honored as a Distinguished Speaker for the Accelerated Discovery Forum at IBM Research-Almaden (2018), the Mindlin Foundation (2019), and the Allen Frontiers Group (2019). She serves on multiple scientific advisory and editorial boards, paving the way for impactful multidisciplinary research. Education Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California Santa Barbara, 2007 B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California Santa Barbara, 2002 Previous appointments Assistant Professor, Chemical and Biological Engineering, Northwestern University; 2012-2019. Secondary appointment in Feinberg School of Medicine Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Postdoctoral Fellow, Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; 2008-2012 Research Statement Neda Bagheri comes to the UW from Northwestern University, where she founded and directed the Modeling Dynamic Life Systems (MoDyLS) Lab. Her lab integrates experimental data with computational methods to uncover fundamental properties governing intracellular dynamics and intercellular regulation. Her interdisciplinary team of engineers and scientists employs machine learning, dynamical systems, and/or agent-based modeling strategies to explain unique biological observations across several fields of study, including cancer, immune, and circadian biology. Bagheris background in control theory drives her labs mission to identify and design interventions that promote specific cellular decisions and cell population outcomes, particularly in the context of disease. Honors & awards NSF CAREER Award, National Science Foundation Directorate for Engineering, 2017-2021 Keynote Speaker, Foundations of Systems Biology in Engineering; 2019 Allen Frontiers Modeling Symposium Speaker; 2019 Distinguished Speaker, Accelerated Discovery Forum at IBM Research-Almaden, 2018 Keynote Speaker, 15th International Conference on Molecular Systems Biology (ICMSB), Raitenhaslach, Germany, 2017 Cornew Innovation Award, Chemistry of Life Processes, 2014-2017 News Immune cells consult with neighbors to make decisions New research from UW and Northwestern University shows that immune cells count how many of them have gathered to determine how much the immune system should react Read Article Welcome new faculty New ChemE faculty bring expertise in data science, advanced materials, and systems biology Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Research interests Computational/systems Biology Emergent Phenomena Dynamics Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
