James Carothers | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder James Carothers Dan Evans Career Development Associate Professor Chemical Engineering Adjunct Associate Professor Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Associate Chair for Research and Infrastructure jcaroth@uw.edu (206) 221-4902 MOL 322 Carothers Research Group Biography James is an Associate Professor and member of the Molecular Engineering & Sciences Institute (MolES) and Center for Synthetic Biology (CSB) at the University of Washington.Previously, James was a postdoctoral fellow and research scientist with Jay D. Keasling at UC Berkeley and the DOE Joint BioEnergy Institute. There, he developed design-driven approaches to engineer RNA-based genetic control devices for programming quantitatively-predictable functions in synthetic biological systems. James was a graduate student at Harvard, where he earned a Ph.D. with Jack W. Szostak. As a graduate student, he used information theory, in vitro selection, RNA biochemisty and 3D solution NMR to show that there may be a fundamental, quantitative relationship between the informational complexities of molecular structures and the functional activities they can perform. James has a B.S. in Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry from Yale. He has received the University of Washington Presidential Innovation Award and the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship.Outside the lab, he was a fellow of the Silicon Valley Startup Leadership Program (SLP), and enjoys backpacking, snowboarding, mountain biking, cooking BBQ ribs (native Tennessean), trail running with his adopted Boxer, and hiking with his son. Education Ph.D., Harvard University, Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, 2005 B.S., Yale University, Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, 1998 Previous appointments University of California, Berkeley, Jane Coffin Childs Research Fellow, 2006-2009 Research Statement The Carothers Research Group integrates quantitative RNA device design, dynamic control system modeling, and CRISPR-Cas network engineering for applications in synthetic biology. Our aims are to understand fundamental biological design principles and to engineer systems to meet demands for new sources of industrially- and medically-important chemicals and materials. Honors & awards UW College of Engineering Junior Faculty Award, 2016 Emerging Scholar, 2016, Diverse: Issues in Higher Education UW Presidential Innovation Award, 2014 Sloan Research Fellow, Computational Molecular Biology, 2013, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation News We can make it better ChemE researchers are developing and scaling up advanced manufacturing technologies to make more sophisticated molecules and materials, more sustainably Read Article How to convert CO2 into useful material James Carothers wins ARPA-E award to develop a new bioconversion process for turning greenhouse gases into desirable chemical products Read Article James Carothers recognized as inspiring Black scientist Cell Mentors list of 1,000 inspiring Black scientists includes seven from UW Read Article How to build a network of biofactories Advances in synthetic biology and biomaterials open up exciting prospects for distributed manufacturing of drugs, food products, and other commodities Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Research interests Synthetic Biology RNA Engineering Metabolic Engineering Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
