Stphanie Valleau | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Stphanie Valleau Assistant Professor Chemical Engineering valleau@uw.edu BNS 351 Valleau Lab Education Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry with Secondary Field in Computer Science, Harvard University, 2016 M.A. in Physics, Harvard University, 2013 M.S. in Physical Chemistry, University of Milan, 2010 B.S. in Chemistry, University of Milan, 2008 Previous appointments Simons Foundation Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Stanford University, 2016-2019 Research Statement Designing optimal catalysts, clean energy materials and reactivity is at the heart of chemical engineering. Finding the features which maximize the efficiency of chemical transport processes, catalyst activity and so on, can enable us to define new tools for more rapid chemical design.In the Valleau group, we aim to search for these features and to address the questions of reactivity, exciton transport and material design by combining and developing methods from different fields: computational chemistry, biophysics and computer science. Among our goals, we want to understand how long term changes, such as biological evolution and temperature variations influence short timescale chemical transport processes. Select publications S. Valleau, R. A. Studer, F. Hse, C. Kreisbeck, R. G. Saer, R. E. Blankenship, E. I. Shakhnovich, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. Absence of selection for quantum coherence in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex: A combined evolutionary and excitonic study. ACS Cent. Sci., 3(10):1086, 2017. F. Hse, S. Valleau, E. Pyzer-Knapp, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. Machine learning exciton dynamics. Chem. Sci., 7:5139, 2016. S. Valleau, S. Saikin, D. Ansari-Oghol-Beig, M. Rostami, H. Mosallaei, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. Electrodynamic study of the chlorosome antenna complex in Chlorobium-tepidum. ACS Nano, 8:3884, 2014. J. Huh, S. Saikin, J. Brookes, S. Valleau, T. Fujita, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. Atomistic study of energy funneling in the light-harvesting complex of green sulfur bacteria. J. Am. Chem. Soc., 136:2048, 2014. S. Mandr, S. Valleau, and M. Ceotto. Deep nuclear resonant tunneling thermal rate constant calculations. Int. J. Quant. Chem., 113:1722, 2013. S. Valleau, A. Eisfeld, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. On the alternatives for bath correlators and spectral densities from mixed quantum-classical simulations. J. Chem. Phys., 137:224103, 2012. S. Valleau, S. K. Saikin, M-H. Yung, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. Exciton transport in thin-film cyaninedye J-aggregates. J. Chem. Phys., 137:034109, 2012. S. Shim, P. Rebentrost, S. Valleau, and A. Aspuru-Guzik. Atomistic study of the long-lived quantum coherences in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex. Biophys. J., 102:649, 2012. Honors & awards Simons Collaboration on the Origins of Life Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2016 ACS Graduate Student Award in Computational Physical Chemistry, 2013 News Meet the hackmasters of ChemE Undergraduates learned to code and tackled a real-world chemical production problem in first annual department hackathon Read Article Introducing C-HACK 2021: a hackathon for ChemE students Over two weeks in January, undergrads will complete a Python tutorial and team up to solve a chemical engineering problem with code Read Article Welcome new faculty New ChemE faculty bring expertise in data science, advanced materials, and systems biology Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Energy Systems Data Science & Molecular Simulation Research interests Exciton Transport and Materials Design Evolution and Reconstruction of Photosynthetic Systems Application of Machine Learning to Chemical Engineering Reaction Dynamics and Networks Open Quantum Systems Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
