Franois Baneyx | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Franois Baneyx Charles W.H. Matthaei Professor Chemical Engineering Adjunct Professor Bioengineering Director, CoMotion Vice Provost for Innovation Director, Center for the Science of Synthesis Across Scales baneyx@u.washington.edu (206) 685-7659 BNS 307 Education Ph.D., University of Texas (Austin), 1991 Ingnieur, E.N.S.I.G.C., Toulouse (France), 1987 Previous appointments Department Chair, UW Department of Chemical Engineering, 2014-2018 Director, UW Center for Nanotechnology, 2005-2013 Site Director, NSF National Nanotechnology Infrastructure Network, 2004-2012 Postdoctoral Fellow, Du Pont (Wilmington), 1991 Research Statement Research in the Baneyx laboratory lies at the confluence of synthetic biology, nanotechnology, molecular engineering and materials science. We are a lead lab in CSSAS, the Center for the Science of Synthesis Across Scales, an Energy Frontier Research Center (EFRC) directed by Prof. Baneyx that brings together investigators from three universities and two national laboratories. Inspired by natures ability to fabricate intricate and often hierarchical materials with outstanding transport, optical, and magnetic properties, we seek to understand the rules that underpin the interaction of combinatorially-selected solid-binding peptides with inorganic and synthetic interfaces. We genetically install these peptides within the framework of rationally or computationally designed proteins, thus combining biological function (e.g., self-assembly, catalysis or molecular transport) with the adhesive and morphogenetic properties of the guest peptides. We use the resulting solid-binding proteins as parts in hybrid materials and devices, or synthesize them in cells to fabricate self-organizing, dynamic and living matter with applications ranging from biomedicine and bionanoelectronics to biomineralization and catalysis. Select publications Ma, J., B. Cai, S. Zhang, T. Jian, J.J. De Yoreo, C.-L. Chen and F. Baneyx. 2021. Nanoparticle-mediated assembly of peptoid nanosheets functionalized with solid-binding proteins: Designing heterostructures for hierarchy. Nano Lett. 21:1636-1642 Hellner, B., S. Alamdari, H. Pyles, S. Zhang, A. Prakash, K.G. Sprenger, J.J. De Yoreo, D. Baker, J. Pfaendtner and F. Baneyx. 2020. Sequence-structure-binding relationships reveal adhesion behavior of the Car9 solid-binding peptide: an integrated experimental and simulation study. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 142:2355-2363. Hellner, B., A.E. Stegmann, K. Pushpavanam, M.J. Bailey and F. Baneyx. 2020. Phase control of nanocrystalline inclusions in bioprecipitated titania with a panel of mutant silica-binding proteins. Langmuir 36:8503-8510. Soto-Rodrguez, J. and F. Baneyx. 2019. Role of the signal sequence in proteorhodopsin biogenesis in E. coli. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 116:912-918. Dunakey, S.J.G., B.L. Coyle, A. Thomas, B.J.F. Swift and F. Baneyx. 2019. Selective labeling and decoration of the ends and sidewalls of single-walled carbon nanotubes using mono- and bispecific solid binding fluorescent proteins. Bioconjug. Chem. 30:959-965. Soto-Rodrguez, J., Z. Hemmatian, J. Black, M. Rolandi and F. Baneyx. 2019. Two-channel bioprotonic photodetector. ACS Appl. Bio Mater. 2:930-935. Hellner, B., S.B. Lee, A. Subramanian, V.R. Subramanian and F. Baneyx. 2019. Modeling the cooperative adsorption of solid-binding protein on silica: molecular insights from SPR measurements. Langmuir 35:5013-5020. Swift, B.J.F., J. Shadish, C. DeForest and F. Baneyx. 2017. Streamlined synthesis and assembly of a hybrid sensing architecture with solid binding proteins and click chemistry. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 139:3958-3961. Honors & awards Elected to the Washington State Academy of Sciences, 2016 Elected Fellow, American Academy of Microbiology (AAM), 2015 Elected Fellow, American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE), 2015 Elected Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), 2013 UW College of Engineering Faculty Innovator Award: Research, 2010 Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Grand Challenge Exploration Award, 2008 News Unlocking potential UW, PNNL to host energy research center focusing on bio-inspired design and assembly Read Article Franois Baneyx named director of UWs CoMotion and Interim Vice Provost for Innovation CoMotion is the UWs collaborative innovation hub dedicated to expanding the economic and societal impact of the UW community. By developing and connecting to local and global innovation ecosystems, CoMotion helps innovators achieve the greatest impact for their discoveries. Read Article Message from the Chair Read Article ChemE faculty elected to WA Academy of Sciences Profs. Baneyx and Schwartz wereelected to the Washington State Academy of Sciences for "their outstanding record of scientific achievement and willingness to work on behalf of the academy in bringing the best available science to bear on issues within the state of Washington." Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Health & Biotechnology Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Protein Engineering Bionanotechnology Molecular Biomimetics Protein Folding and Expression Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
