Mary E. Lidstrom | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Chemical Engineering Wordmark Logo MyChemE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Why Choose UW ChemE? Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees Diversity Resources Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE People People Faculty Faculty Finder Mary E. Lidstrom Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Microbiology Frank Jungers Endowed Chair of Engineering lidstrom@u.washington.edu (206) 685-1751 GRB G80 Lidstrom Lab Biography Dr. Lidstrom is a Professor of Microbiology and holds the Frank Jungers Chair of Engineering, in the Department of Chemical Engineering, at the University of Washington, Seattle. She received her B.S. in Microbiology from Oregon State University. After receiving her M.S. and Ph.D. in Bacteriology from the University of Wisconsin, Dr. Lidstrom conducted work as a Leverhulme postdoctoral Fellow in Microbiology at the University of Sheffield. Dr. Lidstrom has previously held academic appointments in Microbiology at the University of Washington, in the Center for Great Lakes Studies in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and in Environmental Engineering Science at the California Institute of Technology. She currently is a fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of Bacteriology and FEMS Microbial Ecology. Dr. Lidstrom is the Vice Provost of Research. Education Ph.D., University of Wisconsin, 1977 M.S., University of Wisconsin, 1975 B.S., Oregon State University, 1973 Research Statement Genomic and metabolic manipulations of methylotrophic bacteriaGenomic, physiological and metabolic modeling approaches are used to understand metabolic networks in these bacteria, with the goal of directed manipulation of key metabolic pathways and enzymes for environmentally benign chemical production from methanol.Physiological heterogeneity of individual cells of M. extorquens AM1 can be used to understand how the behavior of individual cells directs population outcomes during response to stress.Biomolecular Engineering, Metabolic EngineeringBacteria as a group possess an almost unlimited and largely untapped catalytic resource for the chemical industry. Not only can bacteria carry out a complex array of stereospecific transformations, these can normally be accomplished in a way that eliminates production of toxic waste products. The ability to apply modern molecular techniques to a broad group of metabolically diverse bacteria, coupled to the current revolution in genomic sequence availability in biology has provided a new opportunity to exploit the metabolic potential of this large group of organisms. This research program is focused on molecular and metabolic manipulations of a specific group of bacteria, the methylotrophs, with the goal of developing environmentally sound and economically viable alternatives to current chemical production.Methylotrophs are bacteria that grow on methane or methanol. They contain unique metabolic pathways that allow them to grow on these simple substrates, and they contain a series of versatile oxidative enzymes involved in methylotrophic metabolism. Sophisticated genetic techniques have been developed for studying and manipulating these enzymes and metabolic pathways, and genomic sequences are becoming available for key strains. Therefore, this group of bacteria represent an excellent system for developing biologically based chemical production strategies. Honors & awards American Society for Microbiology Proctor & Gamble Award for Applied and Environmental Microbiology, 2013 ASM Graduate Microbiology Teaching and Mentoring Award, 2005 NSF Faculty Award for Women, 1991 News Lidstrom stepping down as Vice Provost for Research After 15 years in the role, she will return full time to the faculty, concentrate more on her research, and establish mentoring and DEI programs. Read Article Lidstrom & Beck: new paper in PNAS New research by Mary Lidstrom and David Beck uses bacteria isolated from Lake Washington sediment to reveal how different species interact and alter their behavior in response to the presence of a heterogeneous community of microbes. These microbes are important to biogeochemical cycling of carbon and nitrogen in the environment and shed light on processes that may be relevant to complex biological systems for industrial microbiology. Read Article More News Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty ChemE research areas Health & Biotechnology Research interests Metabolic & Genomic Manipulation of Methanotrophic Bacteria Microbial Community Interactions Publications Google Scholar Connect with UW ChemE UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
