Civil Engineering Alumni and Friends - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Civil Engineering Alumni and Friends - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Quick Links Purdue Engineering College of Engineering Academic Units Aeronautics and Astronautics Agricultural and Biological Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Construction Engineering and Management Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Education Environmental and Ecological Engineering Industrial Engineering Materials Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Programs College of Engineering Honors Program First-Year Engineering Program Office of Future Engineers EPICS Global Engineering Programs and Partnerships Indiana Space Grant Consortium Minority Engineering Program Professional Practice (Co-Op) Program Women in Engineering Program Innovation and Leadership Studies Vertically Integrated Projects Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Search Loading Lyles School of Civil Engineering Menu Home About Us About Us Welcome CE News Events Calendar Facilities Awards & Honors History Contact Us CE Apparel Store CE by the Numbers Our People Our People Directory Faculty Administrative Offices Staff Committees Alumni Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Academics Academics Specialty Areas Undergraduate Program Burke Graduate Program Cooperative Education Program CE Continuing Lectures Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Bowen Laboratory Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards School of Civil Engineering Distinguished Engineering Alumni eConnections Alumni Newsletter Civil Engineering Advisory Council Give to CE Purdue Online Engineering Alumni Association Engineering Alumni Association Giving Giving Giving Giving Priorities Civil Engineering Development Team Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Gifts Excel Fund President's Council Donor Bill of Rights Intranet Purdue Engineering Lyles School of Civil Engineering Our People Alumni Civil Engineering welcomes our alumni and friends. Since Purdue's opening in 1874, Purdue has spurred the advancement of the civil engineering profession, pioneering in transportation, materials, structures, land surveying, construction, and environmental engineering. The Lyles School of Civil Engineering continues to lead as we take up the challenges of the 21st century. New technology, industry's demand for design and team experiences in the curriculum, the increasing emphasis on interdisciplinary research, along with other changes, affect how we educate our students and perform our mission of discovering new knowledge. Getting involved is your opportunity to give back to the school in ways that further our mission and vision, connect with fellow alumni, enhance our communities, and reach out to students. Contact the Civil Engineering main office at (765) 494-2166 for information on how you can support your school. We look forward to hearing from you. Alumni Spotlights November 29, 2021 James Lambrechts receives BSCES Honorary Member, College Educator Awards Wentworth Institute of Technology Civil Engineering Professor and Lyles School of Civil Engineering alumnus James Lambrechts (MSCE 1976) was honored earlier this year by the Boston Society of Civil Engineers Section (BSCES) of the American Society of Civil Engineers with two recognitions of distinction: the BSCES Honorary Member Award and the BSCES College Educator Award. September 30, 2021 Chris Burke receives Honorary Doctorate at UIC CE alumnus Chris Burke (BSCE '77, MSCE '79, PhD '83, HDR 2010) has received the honorary degree of Doctor of Engineering from the University of Illinois Chicago for his contributions to the field of civil engineering. September 14, 2021 Paul Mlakar featured in ASCE podcast reflecting on 9/11 Pentagon attack Paul Mlakar (PhD '75) is an ASCE distinguished member with more than 40 years of service with the United State Army Corps of Engineers, now in the role of Engineer Emeritus for the U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center. And 20 years ago, he led the ASCE team investigating the damage done by the Sept. 11 attack at the Pentagon. In episode 85 of ASCE Plot Points, Mlakar looks back on that investigation, Sept. 11, and how the profession has changed. September 8, 2021 Mariah Schroeder recognized with 2021 Rising Trendsetter Award from Central Exchange Mariah Schroeder (BSCE '11, MSCE '15) has been recognized with the 2021 Rising Trendsetter Award from Central Exchange. This award is focused on a woman who has demonstrated significant achievement early in her career as an Influencer of women in STEMM. September 1, 2021 Chih-Ping Lin named Dean of Engineering at National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University in Taiwan Chih-Ping Lin (MSCE '95, PhD '99) has been named Dean of Engineering at National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University (NYTU) in Taiwan. Dr. Lin received the MS in Civil Engineering and the PhD degree at Purdue in Geotechnical Engineering. He completed the Ph.D. in three years and while doing so also obtained a MS degree in Electrical Engineering at Purdue. June 8, 2021 Brandon Hardin named to Conexus Rising 30 Brandon Hardin (BSCE'17, MSCE'19) is among six Purdue College of Engineering alumni that have been selected for the inaugural Conexus Rising 30 cohort. Presented by Conexus Indiana, Rising 30 honors advanced manufacturing and logistics' emerging leaders building a prestigious community of young professionals celebrated for their extraordinary talent and innovative thinking early in their career. May 20, 2021 Gary Fisk named ASCE Indiana Outstanding Civil Engineer of the Year Gary Fisk, P.E. (BSCE '80), Vice President at DLZ, has been named the 2021 Outstanding Civil Engineer of the Year by the ASCE Indiana Chapter. May 20, 2021 Kyle Zak named ASCE Indiana Outstanding Young Civil Engineer of the Year Kyle L. Zak, P.E. (BSCE '13, MSCE '18), Group Manager at Terracon Consultants, Inc., has been named the 2021 Outstanding Young Civil Engineer of the Year by the ASCE Indiana Chapter. April 16, 2021 2021 Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards CE alumni William Bailey, Jr., Thomas Chance, Timothy Jacobs, Carrie Warner, and Timothy Wilschetz were celebrated as the 2021 Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Award recipients at a virtual award ceremony on April 15th. March 15, 2021 Stephen Bechtel Jr., 95, dies; led family's giant engineering firm Stephen D. Bechtel Jr. (BSCE '46) took over his family's global engineering and construction company, and was known for expanding the global footprint of the corporation through several of its international projects. March 12, 2021 Benjamn Colucci-Ros recognized with 2021 ASCE Wilbur S. Smith Award Congratulations to Benjamn Colucci-Ros, PhD, PE, F.ASCE, F.ITE, for being selected by ASCE's Transportation and Development Institute to receive the 2021 Wilbur S. Smith Award. This award, which was instituted in 1984, recognizes Dr. Colucci-Ros for his "unending leadership and dedication to action for the improvement of road safety in Puerto Rico and around the world." This prestigious award will be presented at the International Conference on Transportation & Development/ Pavements, June 8-10, 2021. March 4, 2021 Passing of Dr. Dimitri Athanasiou Grivas Dr. Dimitri Athanasiou Grivas (PhD 1976) died on February 27 at the age of 72. He was a PhD student under Milton Harr and collaborated with him in the development of probabilistic methods in Geotechnical Engineering. He then joined the faculty of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Albany (NY) where he spent his whole academic career. February 23, 2021 Andrea Rinaldo recognized with 2021 Distinguished Engineering Alumni Award Andrea Rinaldo (PhD 1983), Professor of Hydrology and Water Resources and Director of the Laboratory of Ecohydrology at cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne, has been named a recipient of the 2021 Distinguished Engineering Alumni Award by the College of Engineering. February 10, 2021 Hani Mahmassani elected to National Academy of Engineering CE alumnus Hani Mahmassani (MSCE '78) has been elected to the National Academy of Engineering, among the highest professional distinctions accorded to an engineer. February 10, 2021 Chris Burke elected to National Academy of Engineering CE alumnus Chris Burke (BSCE '77, MSCE '79, PhD '83, HDR 2010) has been elected to the National Academy of Engineering, among the highest professional distinctions accorded to an engineer. January 27, 2021 Pioneering engineer Delon Hampton dies at 87 Delon Hampton, esteemed academic, founder of a firm bearing his name that has grown for 48 years, and at the outset of the 21st century, ASCEs first Black president, has died. He was 87. November 23, 2020 Monticello bridge to be named after its designer, Donald W. Ward The White County Commission plans to rename the bridge that spans the Tippecanoe River near the Norway Dam on North Francis Street after Donald W. Ward (BSCE '58), who designed and worked on the structure in the early 1970s. November 15, 2020 Dean A. Browning recognized as ACI Honorary Member Dean A. Browning (BS '71, MS '74) has been recognized by the American Concrete Institute (ACI) as Honorary Member, ACI's highest honor. Dean is recognized for his long and outstanding service to ACI and his leadership at the Charles Pankow Foundation. November 13, 2020 Melville, Paez receive UNM Distinguished Alumni Award Phillip L. Melville (MSCE '46) and Thomas L. Paez (PhD '73) have been honored by the University of New Mexico School of Engineering as recipients of the 2020 Distinguished Alumni Award. September 10, 2020 Milo Riverso elected chairman of design professionals coalition Milo E. Riverso (MSCE 1982, Ph.D. 1984), Ph.D., P.E., CCM, president and chief executive officer of STV, has been named chairman of the Design Professionals Coalition (DPC), a national organization consisting of senior executives from the leading design and engineering firms across the United States. Riverso's three-year term was effective beginning in August. Viewing 1 to 20 of 166 | Next 20 > Alumni & Friends CE Events Calendar CE Open CEAAA Recipients DEA Recipients CE eConnections Newsletter Advisory Council Giving Opportunities Eng. Professional Education Eng. Alumni Assoc. Purdue Alumni Assoc. Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2021 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact the Engineering Administration Communications Office for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ce@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
