Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Quick Links Purdue Engineering College of Engineering Academic Units Aeronautics and Astronautics Agricultural and Biological Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Construction Engineering and Management Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering Education Environmental and Ecological Engineering Industrial Engineering Materials Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Programs College of Engineering Honors Program First-Year Engineering Program Office of Future Engineers EPICS Global Engineering Programs and Partnerships Indiana Space Grant Consortium Minority Engineering Program Professional Practice (Co-Op) Program Women in Engineering Program Innovation and Leadership Studies Vertically Integrated Projects Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Search Loading Lyles School of Civil Engineering Menu Home About Us About Us Welcome CE News Events Calendar Facilities Awards & Honors History Contact Us CE Apparel Store CE by the Numbers Our People Our People Directory Faculty Administrative Offices Staff Committees Alumni Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Academics Academics Specialty Areas Undergraduate Program Burke Graduate Program Cooperative Education Program CE Continuing Lectures Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Bowen Laboratory Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards School of Civil Engineering Distinguished Engineering Alumni eConnections Alumni Newsletter Civil Engineering Advisory Council Give to CE Purdue Online Engineering Alumni Association Engineering Alumni Association Giving Giving Giving Giving Priorities Civil Engineering Development Team Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Gifts Excel Fund President's Council Donor Bill of Rights Intranet Purdue Engineering Lyles School of Civil Engineering Our People Robert B. Jacko Professor of Civil Engineering Purdue University Lyles School of Civil Engineering 550 Stadium Mall Drive West Lafayette, IN 47907-2051 Office: HAMP 1101B Phone: (765) 494-2199 Email: jacko@purdue.edu Web: personal web site Specialty Area(s) Environmental Engineering Architectural Engineering Education Ph.D., Purdue University, 1972 M.S.M.E., Marquette University, 1968 B.S.M.E., Milwaukee School of Engineering, 1963 A.A.S., Milwaukee School of Engineering, 1960 Research Summary Air pollution management and control, transportation noise problems, environmental occupational safety and health. Selected Research Projects Joint Transportation Research Project, "Applicability of Borman Decision Tree/ITS Management Tool to Other Expressway Systems", 2005 Joint Transportation Research Project, ITS Strategies for Minimization of Fine Particulates, 2004 Joint Transportation Research Project, "Blind Pedestrians and Their Ability to Navigate Indiana Intersections-A Review of the Technology Available for Audible Signs", 2004 Joint Transportation Research Project, "Continuation of Research to Determine the Effectiveness of ITS on Borman Expressway Air Quality", 2002 National Science Foundation, "Pharmaceutical Powder Unipolar Ion Dust Control System", 2000 National Science Foundation, "The Effect of Pharmaceutical Powder Chargeability on Blend Uniformity", 2000 For complete list in PDF form . . . Honors & Awards Lyman A. Ripperton Award, Air and Waste Management Association, 2004 Nominee, Lyman A. Ripperton Award, Air and Waste Management Association, 2003 Recognition of 25 Years of Membership, Air and Waste Management Association, Toronto, Canada, 1997 School of Civil Engineering Best Teacher Award, 1995 Nominee, A.A. Potter Best Teacher Award, College of Engineering, Purdue, 1995. Recognition of 25 Years of Membership, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1994 In Appreciation for Dedicated and Distinguished Service to the Division of IDE, Interdisciplinary Engineering Division, 1992 Selected Publications Bereznicki, S.D., Heber, A.J., Jacko, R.B., (2012), "Odor and Odorous Chemical Emissions From Dairy And Swine Facilities: Part 1 Project Overview and Collection Methods and Quality Control," in review with the Transactions of the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. Foley, T., Betterton, E.A., Jacko, R.B., John Hillery (2011) "Lake Michigan Air Quality: The 1994--2003 LADCO Aircraft Project (LAP)," submitted to Atmospheric Environment. Soliman, A.S.M. and Jacko, R.B. (2008) "A Quantitative Approach to the Traffic Air Quality Problem: The Traffic Air Quality Index," The Journal of the Air and Waste Management Association. Thomas, S. and Jacko, R.B. (2007). "Model for Forecasting Expressway Fine Particulate Matter and Carbon Monoxide Concentration: Application of Regression and Neural Network," The Journal of the Air and Waste Management Association 2006. Thomas, S., Bullock, D. and Jacko, R.B. (2007) "Model for Estimating Mobile Emissions During Expressway Incidents", The Journal of the Air and Waste Management Association. Ramirez-Dorronsoro, J-C., Jacko, R.B. and Kildsig, D.O. (2007). "Chargeability Measurements of Selected Pharmaceutical Dry Powders to Assess Their Electrostatic Charge Control Capabilities." AAPS PharmSciTech, 7(4): Article 103. Soliman, A.S.M., Jacko, R.B., Palmer, G.M., (2006) "Development of an Empirical Model to Estimate Real-World Fine Particulate Matter Emission Factors: The Traffic-Air-Quality Model". The Journal of the Air and Waste Management Association, volume 56, 1540-1549. Soliman, A.S.M. and Jacko, R.B. (2005). "Development of an Empirical Model to Estimate Real-World PM2.5 Emission Factors; The Traffic-Air-Quality Model", The Journal of the Air and Waste management Association. Yang, K.J., Jacko, R.B. and Sun, Wen-Yih (2005). "Regional Climate-Chemistry Model Simulations of Troposheric Ozone- Part I: Model Formulation and Evaluation". Atmospheric Environment. For complete list in PDF form . . . Our People CE People Faculty Directory Staff Directory Administration Committees Alumni & Friends CE Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2021 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact the Engineering Administration Communications Office for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ce@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
