KTH | Wei Der Chien Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Wei Der ChienDOKTORANDKungliga Tekniska Hgskolanhttps://www.kth.se/profile/wdchienDetaljerArbetar vid BERKNINGSVET & BERKNINGSTEKNAdress LINDSTEDTSVGEN 5E-post wdchien@kth.seForskareForskar-IDORCID IDGoogle Scholar IDOm migI am a PhD student in High-Performance Computing and Visualization. My main supervisor is Prof. Stefano Markidis. The ability to create value from large-scale data is now an essential part of research and driving technological development everywhere from your cellphone to life-saving medical applications. In almost all scientific fields that require handling large-scale data, such as weather forecast, Physics, and computational biology, supercomputers (HPC systems) have emerged as an essential tool for implementing and solving their respective problems. However, the handling of large-scale data I/O (reading and writing data), efficiently, can be problematic. While the computational speed of supercomputers has grown rapidly, the I/O subsystem is still lacking behind. This can potentially block and slow down the training pipeline, hindering researchers from progressing their work at a rapid pace. In my research, I investigate new programming models that are suitable for both traditional (such as weather simulations), and emerging applications (big data and Machine Learning). While all these applications require the ingestion and output of a large amount of data, they have very different usage patterns. At the same time, new storage technologies (such as fast non-volatile memory, and object storage) have been growing exponentially. For this reason, there is a need for a new programming model that handles different kinds of I/O workloads while taking advantage of emerging storage technologies. In particular, we look at how emerging storage technologies can be efficiently leveraged to accelerate applications. By accelerating the I/O subsystem, we fill the last piece of the puzzle in the HPC ecosystem. In practice, our work has the potential of enabling other researchers that requires handling large-scale data to perform fast computation as well as deliver results faster. I have been participating in the following EU projects: IO-SEA, SAGE2, EPiGRAM-HS, VESTEC (EC H2020) KurserDatorteknik och komponenter (IS1500), lrare, assistent | KurswebbDatorteknik, grundkurs (IS1200), lrare, assistent | KurswebbIntroduktion till hgprestandaberkningar (DD2358), assistent | KurswebbMetoder inom hgprestandaberkningar (DD2356), assistent | KurswebbTillmpad GPU-programmering (DD2360), assistent | KurswebbPublikationerPublikationslista KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket KTH:s skolor Centrumbildningar Rektor Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl Kontakt KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
