KTH | Michail Vazirgiannis Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Michail VazirgiannisGSTPROFESSORKungliga Tekniska Hgskolanhttps://www.kth.se/profile/mvazDetaljerArbetar vid PROGRAMVARUTEKN & DATORSYSTEMAdress KISTAGNGEN 16E-post mvaz@kth.seOm migProf Vazirgiannis is avisiting professor supported by the "Wallenberg AI, Autonomous Systems and Software Program" (WASP). Hisareas of research is machine and deep learning for large scale heterogeneous data (including graphs and text). More specifically in the last years we have been researching community detection, graph classification/clustering/embeddings, influence maximisation, graph-based NLP, deep learning for word embeddings with applications to digital marketing, event detection,summarisation and legal text. Machine and recently deep learning are significant methods to help extracting knowledge from large scale data in all domains. The most interesting and expressive data are graphs that are present in many domains including biology, social networks, power/communication/transport facilities. In this domain the topic that really fascinates me is deep learning on graphs, known as Graph Neural networks. This area is really booming while state of the art is advancing rapidly with promising potential for many real-life applications. Overall AI promises to change our lives significantly and we need to be well prepared to maximise the benefits to society and economy in a balanced manner The methods we are developing are very relevant to different application domains where text and graphs are present. Deep learning in the presence of large-scale data enables extracting the best possible models for different predictive and unsupervised tasks for different domains including bio/medicine, legal documents, social networks, online marketing and advertising, recommendations, retail etc. In the future, many processes in the above domains will be fully automated and mastering algorithms in this case is important. LnkarArtificial Intelligence: Challenges for the future @ Les Annales des Mines, June 2020M. Vazirgiannis - Google scholar profile KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket KTH:s skolor Centrumbildningar Rektor Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl Kontakt KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
