KTH | Daniel Arajo de Medeiros Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Daniel Arajo de MedeirosDOCTORAL STUDENT, DOKTORANDKungliga Tekniska Hgskolanhttps://www.kth.se/profile/dadmDetaljerArbetar vid PARALLELLDATORCENTRUM (PDC)BERKNINGSVET & BERKNINGSTEKNAdress TEKNIKRINGEN 14E-post dadm@kth.seRum509Om migHej! Vlkommen till min sida! I'm Daniel, a doctoral student at the PDC Center for High Performance Computing. As it is implied, my field of study is computer architectures and parallel processing, and I do a lot of profiling and data analysis on a daily basis. My academic advisor is Prof. Dr. Dirk Pleiter and my current project is related to bringing certain applications to the future and yet unbuilt (as of 2021) exascale supercomputers. What kind of applications? The ones that TREX-CoE is developing, mostly related to quantum chemistry that relies on the Monte Carlo method (Quantum Monte Carlo, to be exact). While there are teams dedicated to the development of each application (seven, in total), I permeate under all of them and check their performance on different architectures (ARM, GPU), different mathematical kernel libraries (Intel, BLAS, BLIS, etc), and numerical precision. My current aim is to extract the kernel functions that those softwares uses and optimize them into a particular layer that will be used by all those applications. During my masters, I researched cloud applications (Elasticsearch was the main focus) with Prof. Dr. Vinicius Petrucci as my main supervisor. Our research focus was the workload scheduling of such applications in heterogeneous cores through the usage of application-level metrics (i.e., processing time). Before coming to KTH, I have worked as a geophysicist at a brazilian state-owned company for about seven years. Portuguese is my main tongue, and I am pretty fluent in english (although you might take a bit to understand my accent). I can also discuss politics with a cab driver in spanish, order a pizza in french and tell that I'm lost in swedish (but currently working on doing it in a more finely way). If you (reader) are ever bored, need some insights or just have a question, feel free to email me. Let's talk about anything. LnkarLinkedInPersonal website KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket KTH:s skolor Centrumbildningar Rektor Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl Kontakt KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
