KTH | Mojtaba Eshghie Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Mojtaba EshghieDOKTORANDKungliga Tekniska Hgskolanhttps://www.kth.se/profile/eshghieDetaljerArbetar vid TEORETISK DATALOGIAdress LINDSTEDTSVGEN 5, PLAN 5E-post eshghie@kth.seOm migI am a PhD student at Theoretical Computer Science division of KTH Royal Institute of Technology. My current research is focused on Monitoring Smart Contracts using state of the art static and dynamic techniques. I am working under the supervision of Cyrille Artho and Dilian Gurov. The final goal of my thesis is to utilize technologies such as Static Analysis along with AI and Dynamic Analysis to build a framework to monitor and detect vulnerabilities in smart contracts with precision. At 2019 I was awarded a master's degree in Information Technology Engineering from University of Tehran after successfully performing research in two fields of Internet of Things and Network Monitoring. The latter project was conducted in Telecom Paristech LINCS laboratory. Publications EASE 2021: Dynamic Vulnerability Detection on Smart Contracts Using Machine Learning In this work we propose Dynamit, a monitoring framework to detect reentrancy vulnerabilities in Ethereum smart contracts. The novelty of our framework is that it relies only on transaction metadata and balance data from the blockchain system; our approach requires no domain knowledge, code instrumentation, or special execution environment. Dynamit extracts features from transaction data and uses a machine learning model to classify transactions as benign or harmful. Therefore, not only can we find the contracts that are vulnerable to reentrancy attacks, but we also get an execution trace that reproduces the attack. Using a random forest classifier, our model achieved more than 90 percent accuracy on 105 transactions, showing the potential of our technique. Supervisor of Master's Student Thesis' As a doctoral student at KTH I can be your master's thesis supervisor. You will have the opportunity to be part of a bigger project and gain research experience from being involved in an interesting area of cyber-security. If you are a master's student in Sweden and would like to work on the intersection of Deep Learning, Security, and Blockchain feel free to contact me by email. KurserDataskerhet (DD2395), assistent | KurswebbNtverksprogrammering (ID1212), assistent | KurswebbProgrammeringsteknik (DD1310), assistent | KurswebbProgramutvecklingsteknikens grunder (DD2480), assistent | KurswebbLnkarGoogle Scholar KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket KTH:s skolor Centrumbildningar Rektor Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl Kontakt KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
