Hogan, Kelly A. - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Hogan, Kelly A. Hogan, Kelly A. June 14, 2011 Hogan, Kelly A. STEM Teaching ProfessorAssociate Dean of Instructional Innovation, College of Arts & Sciences kelly_hogan@unc.edu 104B Wilson Hall Teaching/Service Awards: National Association of Biology Teachers (NABT) Four Year Teaching Award (2020) The Tanner Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching (2015) NACADAs 2015 Outstanding Advising Award for Faculty Carolina Womens Leadership Council Mentoring Award, UNC, (2014) Bryan Public Service Award, UNC (2014) Spirit of Inquiry Award, Pope Foundation for Higher Education (2011) UNC Biology Department Instructor of the Year (2011 and 2016) Chapman Family Chancellors Award, UNC (2011) UNC Student Undergraduate Teaching and Staff Award (2010) Current CV: Hogan, Kelly_CV 10_2020 Join me on Twitter: @DrMrsKellyHogan Book me for inclusive teaching workshops at InclusifiED.com Authored/Co-Authored: What students want from Remote Learning, American Society of Cell Biology Newsletter, August 2021 A Dozen-Plus Ways you can Foster Educational Equity, Inside Higher Ed, July 2020. Eight Ways to be More Inclusive in Your Zoom teaching. Chronicle Of Higher Education, April, 2020. Want to Reach All of Your Students? Heres How to Make Your Teaching More Inclusive. Advice Guide. Chronicle Of Higher Education, July 22, 2019. Getting Under the Hood: How and for Whom Does Increasing Course Structure Work? A research article published with my collaborator, Sarah Eddy. A few articles with my collaborator Viji Sathy about an inclusive curriculum, using technology to support inclusive teaching, and our framework around inclusive teaching Campbell Biologys Concept and Connections, 8th, 9th, and 10th editions. Pearson. Campbell Essential Biology, 5th Edition. Pearson, 2015 Stem Cells and Cloning About My Teaching and Educational Projects (Featured in the Media): A Chronicle of Higher Education cover article feature about my teaching and inclusive teaching workshops. Are college Lectures Unfair? A New York Times article featuring my work with co-author Sarah Eddy. Podcasts with Teaching in Higher Ed with my collaborator Viji Sathy: one about teaching evaluations and one about inclusivity and one about equity-enhancing data tools. A New York Times article about a CBE LSE research article with co-author Sarah Eddy, detailing the benefits of an interactive, structured classroom in a large STEM course. See additional articles in INSIGHT Diversity and The Atlantic Curricular innovations that I lead as Director of UNCs Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP) focused on course-based undergraduate research experiences (CUREs) and makerspace courses. A talk I gave with my colleague Jeff Greene about a collaborative learning analytics project between biology and school of education and psychology. An essay (A UT Austin Innovation Abstract) with my personal perspective on changing my teaching from an instructor-centered to student-centered approach. AnAAU-funded STEM Transformation project that I co-lead and an Inside Higher Ed article and a videohighlighting the early stages of the project. Videos: UNC Commencement address and Closing the Achievement Gap. Add-5-minutes-of-active-learning For students: Need a letter of rec from me? See Letter of Recommendation Profile Form Looking for a research position? See advice:Finding-a-Research-Mentor_UNC. Please check out our Undergraduate Biology Facebook Page and Twitter @BIOL_undergrads Tips on How-to-read-a-scientific-paper MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
