Sekelsky, Jeff - UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Skip to main content UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY Submit Search DONATE EVENTS CONTACT Toggle navigation UNC DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY About Us Interim Department Chair of Biology Mental Health Resources Our History Diversity and Inclusion Give to Biology Biology Advisory Board Herbarium (NCU) Contact Us I Am Biology Faculty or Staff A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student A Transfer Student An Alumnus or Friend Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Program Degree Requirements Advising Course Offerings Undergraduate Research Honors Opportunities BIOL 101/L Placement Test BIOL 291/292 Enrollment Biology Graduation Student Resources Student Feedback Graduate Studies Graduate Program Affiliated Programs Graduate Course Offerings Graduate-Level Seminar Courses Awards & Scholarships Student Resources Biology Lunch Bunch Graduate Program Alumni People Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Research Research Strengths Undergraduate Research UNC Biology Research Community News & Events Recent News Annual Newsletters All Upcoming Events Biology Seminars Biology Lunch Bunch Events for Undergraduates Commencement Make a Gift Home / Faculty / Sekelsky, Jeff Sekelsky, Jeff June 14, 2011 Sekelsky, Jeff Professor Affiliations: Program in Molecular Biology and Biotechnology; Curriculum in Genetics and Molecular Biology; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center sekelsky@unc.edu 303 Fordham Hall (919) 843-9400 (office) Lab Website DNA damage is a constant challenge to cells and a primary event leading to cancer. Double-strand breaks when both strands of the double helix are severed is among the most lethal forms of damage; it is essential that such breaks be repaired efficiently and with high fidelity. We seek to understand the molecular mechanisms through which this is achieved. We use primarily genetic approaches (classical and molecular, forward and reverse), using the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster as a model organism. Double-strand breaks occur spontaneously due to problems during DNA replication, or they can be induced by exposure to ionizing radiation or clastogenic chemicals. Meiotic cells actually induce programmed double-strand breaks. The goal of meiosis is to generate haploid gametes from a diploid cell. To do this, homologous chromosomes must pair and stick together until anaphase of meiosis I. How do they stick together? By making crossovers. The pathway for generating crossovers begins with the formation of double-strand breaks. These breaks are repaired in a highly regulated way to ensure that crossovers are generated in the right places, but not in the wrong places. We are interested in the molecular mechanisms of this specialized repair process and how it differs from double-strand break repair in non-meiotic cells. These projects are discussed in more detail on our lab web site. MAKE A GIFT! 2021 UNC Department of Biology Coker Hall 120 South Road CB #3280 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280919-962-1379Contact Web Administrator
