Advisory Council | Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Skip to main content Faculty DirectoryCornell EngineeringApplyVisitGive to EngineeringIndustry Partners HomeProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsGraduate ProgramsM.Eng. Program in Geological SciencesCoursesStudent OpportunitiesResearchDEI InitiativesPeopleFaculty & Research StaffField FacultyGraduate StudentsAdministrative StaffAdvisory CouncilAcademic LeadershipFacilitiesCenters, Labs, and InstitutesGeochemistry FacilitiesHeasley MuseumRock ParkSnee HallAlumniGive to EASGet InvolvedEAS MagazineClass NotesResourcesMental Health SupportDiversity, Equity & Inclusion InitiativesEAS Graduate Virtual Open HouseExperience and EmploymentUndergraduate Student ActivitiesAcademic SupportGraduate Student Activities Open the search panel Menu Search Close Advisory CouncilFounded in 2008, the purpose of the Advisory Council for Cornell Universitys Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences is to give advice and assistance in support of the Departments priorities and strategic goals.Advisory Council CharterNavigation Heading for Screen ReadersPeopleAdvisory CouncilAdvisory Council CharterBruce BaileyFormer VP of Renewables for UL; Founder/Former CEO of AWS Truepower (Retired)BioBruce is a veteran of the renewable energy industry, beginning as a tenured research associate at the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center at UAlbany. At that time he was also the weekend meteorologist for the ABC affiliate (WTEN) in Albany, NY. He then founded AWS Truepower, a global meteorological/engineering consultancy, which he led for over 30 years. The company was acquired by UL where he became the VP of Renewables, overseeing $70 million in annual revenues. Bruce has managed the evaluation of over 140 GW of wind and solar plants, working on behalf of asset owners, developers, lenders, government, utilities, and NGOs. His expertise ranges from executive leadership and project management to renewable energy & smart technology systems evaluation, risk analysis, and the application of meteorological/climate analysis to engineering, environmental and economic planning. Bruce has chaired several industry conferences and boards and served as a University thesis mentor and guest lecturer.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilMy goal is to bring a private sector perspective to promoting interdisciplinary collaboration and excellence while ensuring that the Department maintains a world-class reputation.Jonathan BrewerCoordinator of Group of Experts, UN Security Councils 1540 CommitteeBioDr. Jonathan Brewer is currently the Coordinator of the Group of Experts that supports the UN Security Councils 1540 Committee, New York, a Visiting Professor, King's College London, Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Center for New American Security, Washington DC, and a Fellow of the Geological Society of London.From 2010 to 2015 he was the financial expert on the UN Panel on Iran created pursuant to resolution 1929 (2010). From 1983-2010 he was a member of HM Diplomatic Service and served in British Embassies in Luanda, Mexico City and Moscow. After receiving a PhD in geophysics from Cornell University (1981) he spent two years at Cambridge University, UK, working on deep seismic reflection profiles recorded in UK waters. He has a BA in Geology from Oxford University, UK (1977).Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI would like to contribute to the debate over the future direction of the Department's research.Kenneth BrinkSenior Scientist Emeritus, Woods Hole Oceanographic InstitutionBioGraduated from Cornell in Engineering Physics in 1971 and obtained a PhD in physical oceanography from Yale in 1977. Spent 3 years at Oregon State University before moving to the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in 1980. Study currents and water properties over the continental shelf, using both observational and theoretical approaches. Taught and advised graduate students as part of the MIT/Woods Hole Joint program. Served as Chair of the National Academies Ocean Studies Board, as president of The Oceanography Society and as editor of the Journal of Marine Research. Fellow of 4 scientific Societies and received the Cody Award in Ocean Sciences from Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Trustee of the Bermuda Institute of Ocean Sciences.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilMy goal in serving on the EAS Council is to support the marine sciences at Cornell and their integration with the universitys broader scientific and educational community.Richard CardwellChevron Corporation (Retired)BioRichard Cardwell has more than 40 years of experience as a geophysicist in academics and the petroleum industry. He is the author of over 30 peer-reviewed scientific publications and has made significant commercial oil and gas discoveries in California, Congo, Nigeria, China and Russia.After receiving his Ph.D. in seismology from Cornell University in 1980 he worked as a Research Associate in the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences. From 1983 through 2001 he held various positions in research, exploration and management for Chevron Corporation. Since 2002 he has worked as a consultant to the petroleum industry, and he is a California Registered Geologist.He is a member of all major professional geological and geophysical organizations and has served as president of the Bay Area Geophysical Society and the Northern California Geological Society.He has traveled to over 100 countries to photograph many of the worlds geological wonders.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilSince joining the EAS Advisory Committee in 2008 as a Founding Member my goal has been to advise and assist Cornells EAS Department especially with regard to seeing that students are adequately prepared for careers in academics and industry.Richard ChuchlaDirector of the Energy and Earth Sciences (EER) graduate program and Leslie Bowling Professor in Geological Sciences, Jackson School of Geosciences, University of TexasBioRichard was born and raised in the shadow of The El Salvador porphyry copper deposit in Chile.He received his undergraduate degree in geology from Cornell and his Masters from the University of Texas at Austin.He retired as an executive from ExxonMobil in 2015 after a 36-year career with the company. Richard has broad experience in minerals (base and precious metals), coal, oil and gas exploration, development, research and management, including a corporate assignment as upstream strategic advisor to ExxonMobils Corporate Management Committee and CEO. Richard has worked in basins and has participated in discoveries around the world.He was appointed as the Director of the Energy and Earth Sciences (EER) graduate program and Leslie Bowling Professor in Geological Sciences in 2016.Harvey CohenPrincipal Hydrogeologist, S.S. Papadopulos & Associates, Inc.BioHarvey Cohen is a principal hydrogeologist with S.S. Papadopulos & Associates in Rockville, Maryland. Dr. Cohen provides evaluation of water resources and environmental contamination, including site investigation and remediation, and brownfields redevelopment. Dr. Cohen has led water resources and geological investigations throughout the United States and in Turkey. For the United Nations Development Programme, he completed the first comprehensive environmental assessment of Cyprus largest copper mining and mineral processing complex. Since 2013 Dr. Cohen has led the planning and implementation of soil and groundwater remediation at the 225-acre Bannister Transformation & Development site in Kansas City, Missouri. Dr. Cohen is co-editor of the American Geological Institutes Geoscience Handbook (AGI Datasheets, 4th Edition). He has a BA in Geological Sciences from Cornell University and a PhD in Geosciences from Princeton University, and is a registered geologist in 4 states. He has served as a member of the EAS Advisory Council since 2008. Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilDr Cohens primary interests for the EAS Advisory Council include supporting the continued long-term growth and health of the department, with an emphasis on strong basic science education, field-based observational training, and education and research into environmental management. Lindsey CohenEdison EnergyEdwardContiVice President / Principal Geologist,EKI Environment & Water, Inc.BioEd received his undergraduate degree in geology from Cornell's College of Arts & Sciences and his Masters degree in geology from Duke. While at Cornell he participated in SEA Semester, an experience that influenced his graduate work in carbonate petrology and natural history. After graduate school, he worked for a short stint as a scientist and instructor aboard the SEA sailing research ships.He then embarked on his now over 30-year career in environmental geology with a focus on groundwater and surface water quality, including assessment of the fate and transport of chemicals in the environment and remediation. Ed has worked on projects throughout the United States, in Canada, and in Europe.Purpose for Joining the Advisory CouncilI joined the Advisory Council as a founding member with the goals of bringing the perspective of the environmental industry, a rapidly growing employer of earth and atmospheric scientists, and an emphasis on strong basic science education and field training to the department to support its efforts in preparing EAS students for the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.Lina M. EcheverraVP of Science and Technology, Corning Incorporated (retired)Innovation Leadership ConsultantBioTrained as a geologist in her native Colombia, after completing her doctorate at Stanford, Lina pursued research in geochemistry of komatiites starting as a post doc at the Carnegie Institution of Washington. At Corning, after years of research in glass and ceramics, she focused on creating environments where scientists were both creative and productive, where teams balanced the ability to explore the edges of possibility, while also delivering critical new technology on time and on budget. As director of research in the US and France, she led research and development efforts in many areas critical to Cornings success, including display glass for TV screens and smart phones, lead-free glass, and diesel particulate filters. Subsequently, as a vice president in Cornings research and technology group, she was responsible for directing efforts at the intersection of market dynamics and Corning technology to ensure development of a robust portfolio of commercial opportunities. Her experiences appear in her book Idea Agent. After winning a fight with aggressive breast cancer, Echeverra stepped aside from the corporate world.Purpose for joining the Advisory CouncilAs long-term advisory board member for other academic institutions I have learned how powerful the impact of such a group can be to the evolution of a geosciences department as it meets a changing landscape. My purpose is to bring my voice, experience and perspective to provide meaningful input to your initiatives, suggest ways to align curricula with strategic goals if contemplated, and serve as a sounding board to the faculty and its chair. To the students I would hope to broaden their career perspectives with a different angle and field for the application of their knowledge.Harlow FarmerShell Corporation (Retired)Gretchen GoldmanAssistant Director for Environmental Science, Engineering, Policy and Justice at the White House Office of Science and Technology PolicyBioGretchen Goldman is the new assistant director for environmental science, engineering, policy, and justice at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Previously, she was the research director for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. For a decade, Dr. Goldman has led research efforts at the nexus of science and policy on topics ranging from federal scientific integrity to fossil energy production, climate change, and environmental justice. Dr. Goldman has testified before Congress and currently serves on the 500 Women Scientists Leadership Board. She also serves as an expert on the Public Health Rulemaking of the California Geologic Energy Management Division (CalGEM) of the Department of Conservation. Previously, she has served on the Air and Climate Public Advisory Committee for the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments and the UNESCO/AAAS Consultation Group on the US science ecosystem. Her words and voice have appeared in Science, Nature, The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN, NPR, and the BBC, among other outlets. She holds a Ph.D. and M.S. in environmental engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology, and a B.S. in atmospheric science from Cornell University.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI seek to ensure that (1) Cornell EAS students are prepared for the many diverse career options that await them when they graduate, (2) Students understand the societal and political implications of their academic work and are motivated to be civically engaged and (3) that the Cornell EAS program is as inclusive and supportive as possible for all.Adam GossDirector of Global Access, BHP PetroleumBioBorn in a small factory town in central Massachusetts, I knew I wanted to be a geologist since the age of 4. My family are Italian immigrants who came to the US for the rocks they were quarrymen from central Italy and loved breaking up granite as much as I. After undergraduate and a one year Watson Fellowship, I came to Cornell to work with Dr. Sue Kay on the crustal evolution of the Central Andes. Upon graduation, I headed to complete a post-doc at the University of Florida under Dr. Mike Perfit on mid-ocean ridge magmatism. By 2010, the economy had crashed so I was drawn to Houston, joining many EAS Cornell alums, to try my skills in the oil patch. After a few years at ExxonMobil, I joined BHP, the largest natural resource extraction company in the world, to work complex tectonic problems in Mexico, Philippines, Trinidad, and Canada. Currently, I am the Director of Global Access for the Exploration company. My job is to deliver new exploration opportunities to BHP through active bid exploration rounds, partnerships, government negotiations, and even corporate mergers. I am married to a lovely Cornell-trained veterinarian from Puerto Rico and have two children, Amelia and Joaquin.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilThrough my involvement with the Cornell EAS Alumni Council, I hope to make a lasting contribution to the direction of the Department, in both curricula and research, to ensure Cornell remains a cutting-edge institution in training the next generation of globally-minded environmentally-focused geoscientists.Tomas HamillSupervisory meteorologist, NOAA Physical Sciences Laboratory, Boulder CO USABioI lead a team that conducts research and development to improve NOAA's weather and sub-seasonal to seasonal prediction systems. We develop methods for improving the initial estimates of the weather state that are used to begin numerical forecasts, methods for conducting realistic "ensembles" of predictions to predict the range of possible weather scenarios, and methods for correcting the raw numerical weather forecast guidance for systematic errors using past forecasts and observations.We work with National Weather Service partners to implement the improvements into the operational weather and seasonal forecast systems.When extreme weather events happen, we also dissect the underlying causes, such as how much may be attributable to climate change, El Nino modulation of the weather, natural variability, and so forth. If any reading this page have questions about a career with NOAA, I'd be happy to answer your questions. I've worked with NOAA since 2000.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilAs an advisory council member, I hope to help ensure that the atmospheric science part of the department continues to grow and attract more talented faculty and students.Jeffrey HsuIntl Trade Comm., Intellectual PropertiesBioJEFFREY T. HSU is a Supervisory Attorney in the Office of Unfair Import Investigations, U.S. International Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. Jeff holds a Ph.D. from Cornell University (Dept. of Geosciences), a J.D. from Cornell Law School, and a B.A. with Honors from Wesleyan University. After completing his Ph.D. Jeff worked for Amoco Production Company in the International division where he did exploration in Columbia, Danish North Sea, and South China Sea. Jeff changed careers and attended Cornell Law School, and he is a member of the New York, New Jersey, and DC bars, and is admitted to practice before the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office. Jeff practices Intellectual Property Litigation at the U.S. International Trade Commission. In private practice, in addition to IP Litigation, he litigated environmental law cases, and he has been involved in human rights advocacy.Ellen KappelPresident, Geo ProseBioEllen Kappel, president of Geo Prose, received a Bachelor of Arts degree in geology from Cornell University (1980) and a PhD in marine geology and geophysics from the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University (1985). Ellen has been on more than a dozen research cruises in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans to study mid-ocean ridge tectonics and assist in deploying deep-towed side-scan sonars and camera systems. After postdoctoral work, Ellen moved to Washington, D.C., as a program manager with the Ocean Drilling Program at Joint Oceanographic Institutions. She became passionate about program management, assisting the community to get the best science done and communicating the results to a broad audience. In 1999, Ellen established Geo Prose, where she works with community members in academia and government to produce compelling documents that make the case for funding major geoscience programs. Ellenis also editor of Oceanographymagazine.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilAs a member of the EAS Advisory Council, I hope to provide students with more opportunities to intern at environmental NGOs in Washington, D.C., and help EAS achieve a more diverse population in its undergraduate majors.Nina LianChief GeoScientist, Decipher GeoscienceNina Lian is a 37+ year Exploration Geoscientist who retired from Shell as of September 30, 2020. In her last two years, Nina served as a Regional Exploration Advisor for NAB (North America Business) and CASA (Caribbean and South America) exploration ventures and served as one of the Discipline Representatives for the explorers with less than 5 years of experience in the Houston hub. She began her career working for the US Geological Survey, then Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution before gaining an M.S. in Geology from Cornell. Her first real job post-grad school was with Exxon Production Research Company, known then as EPR, in the Seismic Stratigraphy group working with Pete Vail, Henry Posamentier, Rick Sarg, Kurt Rudolph, and many others. Nina spent 14 years with Exxon in research and exploration. She decided to leave Exxon in 1997 to continue her career as an independent consultant a role which she enjoyed for the following 21 years! The last 11 years were spent consulting solely for Shell and eventually, Shell convinced her to hire on as an employee in 2018!Over the course of her long career, Nina was hired as an experienced geologist for some clients and as an experienced geophysicist for others. She secured certification in both with the endorsement of her colleagues. Nina has been involved in projects throughout the life cycle: exploration, appraisal, development, and production. Over the course of her career Nina worked for seven major companies (XOM, Texaco, Pemex, Total, Total Fina Elf, ConocoPhillips, and Shell), and three Independents (Fortune Natural Resources, Burlington Resources, Pearl Resources). She is recognized as a master of seismic and sequence stratigraphy, has been immersed in geology, geophysics, and basins around the world, and has experienced many different corporate styles. She enjoys mentoring, coaching, and teaching and hopes to continue to solve geological and geophysical puzzles!Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI joined the EAS Advisory Council as a founding member in 2008. I continue to be interested in bringing my extensive experience in the oil and gas industry into discussions around the future of geosciences at Cornell and to advise students who are interested in pursuing careers in related industries. In my last years at Shell I also served as a Discipline Lead for the "Young Explorers", a role in which I regularly counseled and mentored the newest geoscience related hires. I truly enjoyed that role and would like to continue to serve in that capacity where appropriate for students at Cornell.Jim McDonnellChief Operating Officer, Avalon Energy Services, LLCBioJim McDonnell is the Chief Operating Officer of Avalon Energy Services, LLC. He has extensive experience in the energy industry in a variety of capacities. Jim is responsible for the economic analysis, transaction structuring, and implementation of Avalon Energys energy supply management, energy efficiency, and distributed energy resource projects. Prior to Avalon Energy, Jim was the CFO of Pepco Energy Services. He has also worked as a field engineer for Dresser Atlas, a Manager with Anderson Consulting, and a Vice President with The Columbia Energy Group. Jim holds the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation, is a Registered Professional Geologist in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and is a Certified Energy Manager (CEM). Jim also is a past president of the National Capital Area Chapter (NCAC) of the US Association for Energy Economics (USAEE).Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilMy goal is to assist the Earth and Atmospheric Sciences department in developing scientists and leaders prepared to lead the charge as humanity undertakes immense transformations related to sustainability and the responsible management of our shared resources - with a special focus on the undergraduate program.Mish MichaelsMeteorologistBioMish graduated in 1990 with a degree in Atmospheric Sciences. She spent two decades working in the broadcast sector as an on-air forecaster and science reporter, including 18 years on NBC and then CBS in Boston. Her Emmy award winning science reporting landed her a job with The Weather Channel, co-hosting their first prime time program with meteorologist Jim Cantore called Atmospheres. Mish ran a weather publishing company for a decade called the Almanac Workshop. She taught courses in meteorological communications at UMass Lowell and headed up an NSF funded decade long weather exhibit at the Museum of Science, Boston. Mish has been published in Weatherwise and was Chair of the Board on Women and Minorities for the American Meteorological Society. Mish has mentored many Cornell graduates over the years and is honored to have been one of the first females working in a major market as a broadcast meteorologist.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilMy husband is also a Cornell graduate EE 1989. We have deep ties to the university and I hope to serve students in the major by serving on the EAS Council. I am honored to serve although not often able to participate given other commitments.Walter MooneyUSGS (Hazards)BioWalter D. Mooney is a Senior Research Scientist with the Earthquake Science Center of the US Geological Survey in Menlo Park, California, USA. He has been the Principal Investigator in geophysical field projects throughout the world. His research interests include geophysical studies of the Earths interior and earthquake and tsunami hazards. During the past forty years he has mentored a dozen undergraduate student each summer with research projects ranging from Indonesia to Alaska. After completing his B.S. in physics at Cornell, Walter received his Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He is an adjunct Professor of Geophysics at Stanford University and has been a visiting professor at the University of Paris, University of Kiel, Rice University and Caltech. He is a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union (AGU), GSA, Royal Astro. Society (London) and is a Foreign Member of the Academia Europaea.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI hope to facilitate the improvement of undergraduate and post-graduate education at Cornell, and to promote the quality and impact of research by the faculty.Todd RinglerResearch Staff Member, Science and Technology Policy InstituteBioTodd Ringler is a senior staff member at the Science Technology Policy Institute, where he supports policy initiatives within the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Before joining STPI, he spent more than two years working in the House of Representatives as a National Security Science Fellow, where he managed a wide-ranging legislative portfolio, including science and technology, climate policy, foreign affairs, and national security. While working in Congress, he helped develop and move new legislation related to reducing carbon emissions, incorporating climate change into national security planning, environmental cleanup of toxic chemicals, and workforce apprenticeship programs. Before moving to Washington, D.C., he was a senior scientist in the Theoretical Division at Los Alamos National Laboratory. He led a diverse, twenty-member science team to build a new Earth system model for the Department of Energys Office of Science.He has degrees in aerospace engineering (M.S.) and atmospheric sciences (Ph.D.) from Cornell University. He has held positions of visiting scholar at Princeton University and visiting fellow at the University of Cambridge.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI want to help introduce EAS students to the opportunities available forthem to make an impact through government service and working in the national lab system.Alan SeallsChief Meteorologist, NBC15/WPMI-TVBioAlan Sealls is a broadcast meteorologist, having worked in Albany, GA., Milwaukee, WI., Chicago, IL., and now in Mobile, AL, for the last two decades. He is Chief Meteorologist at NBC15/WPMI-TV in Mobile. His meteorology degrees are a B.S. from Cornell, and a M.S. from FSU. He holds certifications from the American Meteorological Society (AMS) and the National Weather Association (NWA). Alan is a Fellow of the AMS, and a Past President of the NWA. He is an eleven-time regional Emmy winner. Outside of television, Alan teaches a weather broadcasting course at the University of South Alabama, and he writes a weather column for Lagniappe Newspaper. Alan has produced more than 5 dozen weather videos used domestically and internationally by k-12 educators.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI look forward to serving the Council and students as a broadcaster/communicator voice of the private sector, while increasing the ethnic diversity resources of the Council, Cornell, and the student body.John ThompsonPetraScience Consultants Inc.; Adjunct Professor, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Cornell UniversityBioSince 2012, John has partnered in a consulting business based in Vancouver, BC, focused on exploration, mining and sustainability. From 2013-18 he was also the Wold Professor of Environmental Balance for Human Sustainability at Cornell University. John has over 35 years working in the mining industry and related research, and has held diverse leadership roles in many organizations Teck Resources, Genome BC, the World Economic Forum, Resources for Future Generations 2018, Society of Economic Geologists, Geoscience BC, Canada Mining Innovation Council, and MDRU-UBC. He is a director and advisory board member for several exploration, technology, and venture capital companies, and not-for-profit organizations focused on resources and sustainability.Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI hope to help the Department grow in reputation through high quality research in key focus areas, excellence in graduate and undergraduate education, engagement with key sectors that seek earth science data, ideas and employees, and broader public outreach that advances the understanding and value of earth scienceJeane WallaceNortheast River Forecast Center (NERFC), NOAABioJeane Wallace is a Senior Hydrologist at the Northeast River Forecast Center (NERFC), part of NOAAs National Weather Service, where she serves as a hydrologic forecaster as well as the leader of the Hydrologic Modeling Team. Her primary focus outside of operational river forecasting is the hydrologic modeling of watersheds in New England and New York. She is also part of the team instrumental in implementing the Community Hydrologic Prediction Service (CHPS) at NERFC in 2011, which dramatically transformed the way river forecasts are produced. Prior to coming to NERFC in 2001, she was a hydrologist at the Middle Atlantic River Forecast Center in State College, PA and a Meteorologist Intern in Norman, OK. During the summer of 1991, she was a summer intern at the National Hurricane Center, then in Coral Gables, FL. Purposefor joining the Advisory CouncilI believe I will bring a unique perspective to the Council, as I come with many years of experience in the public sector of the U.S. Weather Enterprise. About UsNewsEventsSpotlightsStaff DirectoryContact UsIntranet EASAdmissions:607 255-3474DEPT Address:112 Hollister Drive Ithaca, NY 14853-1504Connect with usFacebookTwitterYoutubeCopyright 2021 Cornell University All rights reserved.Web Accessibility Assistance
