MIT NSE: Faculty: Emilio Baglietto Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Emilio Baglietto Associate Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering Thermal Hydraulics Focus-Area Lead for the Consortium for Advanced Simulation of Lightwater Reactors (CASL) emiliob@mit.edu 617-253-4231 24-205 Consortium for Advanced Simulation of Light Water Reactors (CASL) Bio Education PhD, Nuclear Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2004. M.S., Nuclear Engineering, University of Pisa, 2002. Awards 2005 Best Paper Award from the Thermal-Hydraulics Division of the American Nuclear Society, Washington D.C, November 2005. Invited Lecturer to the 2005 Dr Forum of the Atomic Energy Society of Japan, September 15th and 16th 2005, Hachinoue, JAPAN. Research Turbulence Modeling The availability of more robust and physically realistic turbulence models will bring immediate and major improvements to the reactor's economic and safety performance. The unique generality of the approaches that we are developing allows designing new configurations and innovative concepts, accurately reproducing complex flow and heat transfer distributions; these improvements directly translate into higher efficiency and reduced failures. Unsteady flow phenomena Unsteady flows are often encountered in nuclear applications and can strongly affect the efficiency and reliability of components. Understanding of the underlying physical mechanism and development of groundbreaking modeling techniques is a focus of our research. Multiphase flow and boiling Computational multi-phase flow techniques are being developed to provide a faithful representation of the complex boiling and two-phase flow regimes. Applications include the use of interface tracking techniques to develop cross-flow correlations for subchannel analysis codes and use of the Euler-Euler approach to represent the boiling phenomena in PWR and BWR cores. These methods have demonstrated great potential, and pioneering work is ongoing to bring them up to develop reliable design tools. Virtual Reactor Modeling Development of innovative computational approaches is being incorporated with the ability of implementing full scale detailed models of reactor designs. These high quality, large scale models will incorporate validated multiphysics in order to predict complex multileveled interactions in the early stage of the design. Such innovative tool will significantly modify the project approach for advanced solutions and innovative concepts. Publications Recent Publications F. Roelofs, A. Shams, I. Otic, M. Bttcher, M. Duponcheel, Y. Bartosiewicz, D. Lakehal, E. Baglietto, S. Lardeau, X. Cheng, 2015 Status and Perspective of Turbulence Heat Transfer Modelling for the Industrial Application of Liquid Metal Flows, Nuclear Engineering and Design, In press Available online. *L. Gilman, E. Baglietto, 2014 A Novel Subgrid Wall Boiling Model from Improved Physical Understanding for use in Computational Fluid Dynamics Part 1: Theoretical formulation and Implications, submitted to the International Journal of Multiphase Flow. *L. Gilman, E. Baglietto, 2014 A Novel Subgrid Wall Boiling Model from Improved Physical Understanding for use in Computational Fluid Dynamics Part 2: Model Evaluation and Sensitivity, submitted to the International Journal of Multiphase Flow E.A. Bates, A. Salazar, M.J. Driscoll, E. Baglietto, J. Buongiorno, 2014 Plug Design for Deep Borehole Disposal of High-Level Nuclear Waste, Nuclear Technology 188 Issue 2. A. Shams, F. Roelofs, E. Baglietto, S. Lardeau, S. Kenjeres, 2014 Assessment and Calibration of an Algebraic Turbulent Heat Flux Model for Low-Prandtl Fluids, International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer 79 (2014) 589601. Teaching 22.313J Thermal Hydraulics in Power Technology 22.315 Applied Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer News Recent News Breakthrough in boiling Celebrating great mentorship for graduate students MIT awarded over $1.7M in DOE Nuclear Energy University Programs grants New NSE Faculty Drive Curriculum Expansion Into Computational Science and Engineering Better reactors grow from better simulations FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
