MIT NSE: Research Staff: Jinyong Feng Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Jinyong Feng Research Scientist jinyongf@mit.edu 919-645-8825 NW12-305 Bio Jinyong Feng joined the Baglietto CFD research group in the NSE department as a Research Scientist from February 2019. Prior to the appointment of research scientist, he worked as a Postdoctoral Associate in the NSE department since August 2017. At MIT, he conducted modeling and simulation research in the area of nuclear thermal hydraulics with the emphasis on the development and implementation of advance single and multiphase flow models in CFD. He received his Ph.D. from the department of nuclear engineering at NC State University in 2017 and his thesis focused on the evaluation of interfacial forces and bubble-induced turbulence using DNS coupled with level-set interface tracking method. His ultimate research goal is to promote nuclear energy by developing more physics-based models and simulation methods. Education PhD, Nuclear Engineering, North Carolina State University, 2017 MEng, Nuclear Engineering, Texas A&M University, 2013 BS, Nuclear Science and Technology, University of Science and Technology of China, 2012 Research My research interests include multi-phase flow and heat transfer, advanced experimental diagnostics, reactor thermal-hydraulics, materials and safety. I work in cooperation with Profs. Baglietto, Bucci and Buongiorno. My current research is focused in three areas: Direct numerical simulation (DNS) of single and multiphase turbulent flows As first-principle based approach, DNS directly solves the Navier-Stokes equations without any closures. The advancement of numerical algorithms and computational facilities in the past 20 years makes DNS computationally feasible for the verification and validation of physical models. Based on single fluid assumption, interface tracking method (ITM) extends the DNS capabilities from single phase to multiphase. DNS coupled with ITM approaches will contribute to the development of next generation physical models for the successful application of CFD methods in nuclear reactor thermal hydraulics analysis Applications and assessment of next-generation single phase turbulence models RANS-based turbulence models have been widely used in the industries due to its robustness and computationally efficiency. However, they fail to provide good predictions in some challenging flow scenarios involving large scale flow separation and flow mixing. A second-generation RANS-based turbulence model is developed in our group providing adaptive scale resolution of turbulence and producing enhanced predictions. The success of this turbulence model are demonstrated in various applications, like flow mixing in T-junction, grid-to-rod fretting, flow around helical tube bundles, etc. Development of next-generation multiphase wall boiling model Leveraging new physical understanding from the state-of-art experiment and first-principle based numerical simulations, the next-generation multiphase wall boiling closures are being developed for the simulation of wall boiling phenomena. The ultimate goal of the new models is to introduce and demonstrate all necessary mechanisms required to accurately predict the temperature and heat flux for the flow boiling from atmospherical pressure to PWR operational pressure, from the flow regime of onsite of nucleate boiling to departure from nucleate boiling, from vertical channel flow to inclined channel flow, etc. Publications Recent Publications Jinyong Feng, Liangyu Xu, Emilio Baglietto, Assessing the applicability of the structure-based turbulence resolution approach to nuclear safety-related issues, Fluids, 6(2), 61 (2021) Han Bao, Jinyong Feng, Nam Dinh, Hongbin Zhang, Deep learning interfacial momentum closures in coarse-mesh CFD two-phase flow simulation using validation data, International Journal of Multiphase Flow, 135 (2021) Han Bao, Jinyong Feng, Hongbin Zhang, Nam Din, Computationally efficient and scalable CFD prediction of bubbly flow using physics-guided deep learning, International Journal of Multiphase Flow, 130 (2020) Jinyong Feng, Kouichi Tanimoto, Yoshiyuki Kondo, Emilio Baglietto, Demonstration of the STRUCT turbulence model for mesh consistent resolution of unsteady thermal mixing in a T-junction, Nuclear Engineering and Design, 140 (2020) Jinyong Feng, Michael Acton, Emilio Baglietto, Adam R. Kraus, Elia Merzari, On the relevance of turbulent structures resolution for cross-flow in a helical-coil tube bundle, Annals of Nuclear Energy, 140, (2020) Jinyong Feng, Tarek Frahi, Emilio Baglietto, STRUCTure-based URANS simulation of thermal mixing in T-junctions, Nuclear Engineering and Design, 340, 275-299 (2018) Jun Fang, Joseph J. Cambareri, Cameron S. Brown, Jinyong Feng, Andre Gouws, Mengnan Li, Igor A. Bolotnov, Direct numerical simulation of reactor two-phase flows enabled by high-performance computing, Nuclear Engineering and Design, 330, 409-419 (2018) Jinyong Feng, Igor A. Bolotnov, Effect of the wall presence on the bubble interfacial forces in a shear flow field, International Journal of Multiphase Flow, 99, 73-85 (2017) Jinyong Feng, Igor A. Bolotnov, Evaluation of bubble-induced turbulence using direct numerical simulation, International Journal of Multiphase Flow, 93, 92-107 (2017) Jinyong Feng, Igor A. Bolotnov, Interfacial force study on a single bubble in laminar and turbulent flows. Nuclear Engineering and Design, 313, 345-360 (2017) Aaron Thomas, Jun Fang, Jinyong Feng, and Igor A. Bolotnov. Estimation of shear-induced lift force in laminar and turbulent flows. Nuclear Technology 190(3), 274-291 (2015) FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
