Richard K. Lester Skip to content Menu About Research Teaching Articles & Papers Books Unlocking Energy Innovation Global Taiwan Innovation - The Missing Dimension Making Technology Work The Productive Edge Made By Hong Kong Made in America Radioactive Waste Management and Regulation Talks & Media Media Interviews Public Lectures IPC Home About Research Teaching Articles & Papers Books Talks & Media IPC Richard Lester is the Japan Steel Industry Professor and Associate Provost at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he oversees the international activities of the Institute. From 2009 to 2015 he served as head of MITs Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering. He is the founding director and faculty chair of the MIT Industrial Performance Center. Professor Lesters research focuses on innovation strategy and management, applied most recently to the problem of deep decarbonization of the energy sector. He is also widely known for his research on nuclear technology innovation, management and control. Dr. Lester holds an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from Imperial College and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from MIT. He is the author or co-author of eight books, including Unlocking Energy Innovation: How America Can Build a Low-Cost, Low-Carbon Energy System, and The Productive Edge: A New Strategy for Economic Growth. From 2015 to 2019 he served as chair of the National Academies Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy. More FEATURED The Open University Universities to U.S. government: When it comes to China, help us help you The Wire, February 2021 read Powering the energy transition with better storage MIT News, March 2021 read On the Risks and Benefits of New International Engagements MIT Faculty Newsletter, May/June 2020 read MITs Relationship to China MIT Faculty Newsletter, October 2018 read Study: The Role of Firm Low-Carbon Energy Resources in Deep Decarbonization of Power Generation MIT News, September 2018 read A Global Strategy for MIT May 2017 read Accessibility
