MIT NSE: Faculty: Benoit Forget Skip to content Menu EDUCATION UNDERGRADUATE First Year Curriculum + Requirements UROP GRADUATE Admissions Degree Programs Five-Year MS Program PhD Seminars PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COMMUNICATION LAB Course 22 Subject Descriptions MIT Admissions NSE Spotlights RESEARCH Fission Fusion Nuclear Security Radiation Sources, Detection & Measurement Modeling & Simulation Materials in Extreme Environments Quantum Engineering CANES Labs, Centers & Facilities Resources NSE Spotlights Future of Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Future of Nuclear Power PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff NEWS NSE Spotlights Awards NEWS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 NSE SPOTLIGHT ARCHIVES NSE Students 2020 2019 NSE AWARDS ARCHIVES 2020 2019 ABOUT NSE at a glance WNSE History FAQ Diversity and Equity NSE Spotlights FUTURE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY Nuclear Energy in a Carbon-Constrained World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Report Nuclear Power Report GIVE TO NSE Mujid S. Kazimi Memorial Fund Michael J. Driscoll Graduate Fellowship Joseph P. Kearney Memorial Fund Jobs [an error occurred while processing this directive] Contact HOME Search Education Research People News About Give to NSE Home PEOPLE Faculty Research Staff Postdocs Administrative Staff Benoit Forget Associate Department Head and Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering bforget@mit.edu 617-253-1655 24-214 MIT Computational Reactor Physics Group Consortium for Advanced Simulation of Light Water Reactors (CASL) Bio Education PhD, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2006 MS, cole Polytechnique de Montral, 2003 B.S., cole Polytechnique de Montral, 2003 Awards Landis Young Member Engineering Achievement Award, American Nuclear Society, 2013 Ruth and Joel Spira Award for Distinguished Teaching ANS Faculty/PIA Teaching Award Research Prof. Forgets research interests are in the areas of computational reactor physics, radiative transport, and high performance computing. He is also the founder of the Computational Reactor Physics Group (CRPG). Monte Carlo transport methods Monte Carlo neutron transport methods have long been considered a reference solution since they model explicitly the random walk of neutrons in a nuclear system using the fundamental nuclear data. Recent advances in computing power bring these methods closer to performing realistic core analysis and design. CRPG has developed an open source Monte Carlo code, OpenMC, to perform large scale reactor analysis on modern computing architecture. CRPG focuses on the development of novel algorithms for improving the parallel efficiency of Monte Carlo methods, new communication schemes to reduce network load for massive tallies, and improved nuclear models to reduce memory requirements and increase fidelity. Current work is also focused on the analysis of inter-cycle correlations and the automation of Monte Carlo to achieve a given target accuracy. Deterministic transport methods In addition to the Monte Carlo work, CRPG has also developed new concepts to attain high-fidelity 3D deterministic simulations. This work has led to the development of OpenMOC, a 3D method of characteristics code designed for efficient multi-threading and low memory requirement. This project seeks to reduce current bottlenecks limiting the applicability of such methods to full core analysis, and develop new acceleration schemes for more efficient analysis. Multiphysics coupling CRPG also focuses on the development of methods enabling coupling of reactor physics codes with fuel performance or thermal-hydraulics codes for both steady-state and transient analysis. Current work focuses on the coupling of OpenMC with external frameworks using novel techniques to transfer information to irregular meshes and use returning temperature distributions within the Monte Carlo simulations. This work also focuses on the development of new approaches for dealing with the temperature dependence of nuclear data as to provide accurate feedback. Uncertainty Quantification CRPG is also exploring the area of nuclear data uncertainties by looking at the sensitivity of resonance parameters and the propagation of uncertainties on a given nuclear system. This information will not only provide a measure of uncertainty for quantities of interest, but can also better inform nuclear data evaluators for future data releases. Publications Xingjie Peng, Jingang Liang, Benoit Forget, Kord Smith, Calculation of adjoint-weighted reactor kinetics parameters in OpenMC, Annals of Nuclear Energy, 128, 231-235, 2019. Zhaoyuan Liu, Kord Smith, Benoit Forget, Javier Ortensi, Cumulative migration method for computing rigorous diffusion coefficients and transport cross sections from Monte Carlo , Annals of Nuclear Energy, 112, 507-516, 2018. Jilang Miao, Benoit Forget, Kord Smith, Predicting correlation coefficients for Monte Carlo eigenvalue simulations with multitype branching process , Annals of Nuclear Energy, 112, 307-321, 2018 William Boyd, Nathan Gibson, Benoit Forget, Kord Smith , An analysis of condensation errors in multi-group cross section generation for fine-mesh neutron transport calculations , Annals of Nuclear Energy, 112, 267-276, 2018. Xingjie Peng, Jingang Liang, Abdulla Alhajri, Benoit Forget, Kord Smith, Development of continuous-energy sensitivity analysis capability in OpenMC , Annals of Nuclear Energy, 110, 362-383, 2017. Matthew Ellis, Derek Gaston, Benoit Forget, Kord Smith, Preliminary Coupling of the Monte Carlo Code OpenMC and the Multiphysics Object-Oriented Simulation Environment for Analyzing Doppler Feedback in Monte Carlo Simulations , Nuclear Science and Engineering, 185, 184-193, 2017. M.Nowak, J.Miao, E.Dumonteil, B.Forget, A.Onillon, K.S.Smith, A.Zoia, Monte Carlo power iteration: Entropy and spatial correlations , Annals of Nuclear Energy, 94, 856-868, 2016. J.Miao, B.Forget, K.S.Smith, Analysis of correlations and their impact on convergence in Monte Carlo eigenvalue simulations , Annals of Nuclear Energy, 92, 81-95, 2016. M.Ellis, D.Gaston, B.Forget, K.Smith, Preliminary Coupling of the Monte Carlo code OpenMC and the Multiphysics Object-Oriented Simulation Environment for Analyzing Doppler Feedback in Monte Carlo Simulations. Nuclear Science and Engineering, 185-1 184-193, 2017. M.Nowak, J.Miao, E.Dumonteil, B.Forget, A.Onillon, K.S.Smith, A.Zoia, Monte Carlo power iteration: Entropy and spatial correlations, Annals of Nuclear Energy, 94, 856-868, 2016. Patents B. Forget and F. Rahnema, "Boundary Adjusted Critical Spectrum Methodology for Reactor Lattice Depletion", US Patent 7676015 Issued on March 9th, 2010. Teaching 22.05 Neutron Science and Reactor Physics 22.13 Nuclear Energy Systems 22.211 Nuclear Reactor Physics I 22.212 Nuclear Reactor Physics II News Recent News Want cheaper nuclear energy? Turn the design process into a game Benoit Forget named Associate Head of Nuclear Science and Engineeringture needs Assessing MITs computing infrastructure needs Unraveling complexities of nuclear reactors Forget helps advance computational capabilities, expand student research options in NSEs CRPG Three MIT-led research teams win 2014 Department of Energy NEUP awards Forget wins Landis Engineering Achievement Award from the ANS New NSE Faculty Drive Curriculum Expansion Into Computational Science and Engineering Learning the lessons of Fukushima NSE publishes report on lessons learned from Fukushima-Daiichi accident Better Models for Better Reactors FAQ Jobs Diversity & Equity Intranet Accessibility CANES PSFC MIT Nuclear Reactor Lab School of Engineering Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 24-107 (map) Cambridge, MA 02139 nse-info@mit.edu
