Faculty/Staff Positions : Mathematics : Texas State University Skip to Content Texas State College of Science and Engineering Mathematics Employment Faculty/Staff Positions Mathematics About the Department People Prospective Students News & Items of Interest Give back -- Support the Department of Mathematics Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Mathematics Education Doctoral Program Seminars Colloquium Algebra Combinatorics Reading Seminar Differential Equations and Applied Math Seminar Discrete Math Seminar Math Education Seminar Problem Solvers Group Talk Math 2 Me Statistics Seminar Topology Seminar Women Doing Math Research & Conferences Math Graduate Programs Expo China-US Group Theory Summit 2019 REU Site: Algebra, Combinatorics, and Statistics Grants Journals Mathworks Conferences hosted at Texas State University Texas Analysis and Mathematical Physics Symposium Student Resources Class Substitution Form Dissertation/Thesis Room Request Form Hourly Student Positions Math CATS (Computer & Tutoring Service) Registration Questions Schedule Changes Scholarship Opportunities Travel Resources Webpage Update Form Faculty Resources Math Faculty Online Teaching Resources Time Reporting & Class Substitution Form Copy & Typing Request Form Co-Enrollment Action Form Dissertation/Thesis Defense Announcement Form Faculty Award Nominations Faculty Request for Hiring Student Employee Incomplete Grade Form MAA Student Nomination Form Math CATS Introduction Request Math CATS Room Reservation Request Form Printable Graph Paper Research Group Information Campus Room Reservation Request Form Travel Resources Webpage Update Form Employment Faculty/Staff Positions Hourly Student Positions Hiring Packets Social Media Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Current Students Faculty & Staff Family & Visitors Alumni More Tools SAP Portal Pay Tuition Online Toolkit ePortfolio Catalogs Shuttle Tracker Office 365 Athletics Give Library Round Rock News Athletics Give Library Round Rock News Current Students Faculty & Staff Family & Visitors Alumni More Tools SAP Portal Pay Tuition Online Toolkit ePortfolio Catalogs Shuttle Tracker Office 365 Search College of Science and Engineering Mathematics About the Department People Prospective Students News & Items of Interest Give back -- Support the Department of Mathematics Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Mathematics Education Doctoral Program Seminars Colloquium Algebra Combinatorics Reading Seminar Differential Equations and Applied Math Seminar Discrete Math Seminar Math Education Seminar Problem Solvers Group Talk Math 2 Me Statistics Seminar Topology Seminar Women Doing Math Research & Conferences Math Graduate Programs Expo China-US Group Theory Summit 2019 REU Site: Algebra, Combinatorics, and Statistics Grants Journals Mathworks Conferences hosted at Texas State University Texas Analysis and Mathematical Physics Symposium Student Resources Class Substitution Form Dissertation/Thesis Room Request Form Hourly Student Positions Math CATS (Computer & Tutoring Service) Registration Questions Schedule Changes Scholarship Opportunities Travel Resources Webpage Update Form Faculty Resources Math Faculty Online Teaching Resources Time Reporting & Class Substitution Form Copy & Typing Request Form Co-Enrollment Action Form Dissertation/Thesis Defense Announcement Form Faculty Award Nominations Faculty Request for Hiring Student Employee Incomplete Grade Form MAA Student Nomination Form Math CATS Introduction Request Math CATS Room Reservation Request Form Printable Graph Paper Research Group Information Campus Room Reservation Request Form Travel Resources Webpage Update Form Employment Faculty/Staff Positions Hourly Student Positions Hiring Packets Texas State College of Science and Engineering Mathematics Employment Faculty/Staff Positions Faculty/Staff Positions Tenure Track Assistant Professor The Department of Mathematics at Texas State University is seeking to hire a tenure-track assistant professor in mathematics, applied mathematics, or statistics to commence employment in the fall semester of 2022. The successful candidate will be expected to establish a strong commitment to high-quality research. The candidate must be dedicated to the teaching and mentoring of students at the graduate and undergraduate levels. In addition, the candidate must be actively engaged in service to the department, college, university and mathematical community. The starting salary will be commensurate with the candidates qualifications. All positions are subject to availability of funds. Requirements: 1. An earned doctorate in mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, or a closely related field prior to employment; 2. Evidence of excellence in research; 3. Evidence of, potential for, teaching excellence; and 4. An ability to contribute to the Mathematics Department mission. Preferred: 1. Evidence of, or potential to obtain, external funding; 2. Evidence of, or potential for, mentoring student research at various levels; 3. Experience in serving a diverse student population; 4. Demonstrated experience in conducting collaborative research; 5. Demonstrated potential to develop research collaborations with departmental faculty; and 6. Evidence of computational expertise in teaching or research. Application Procedures: Applicants must submit the following via mathjobs.org/jobs: cover letter, AMS cover sheet, current curriculum vitae, all undergraduate and graduate transcripts, statement of research agenda, teaching philosophy, and three letters of recommendation. Applicants are also required to submit a current curriculum vitae and cover letter through the Texas State University website, https://jobs.hr.txstate.edu/postings/35366. To ensure full consideration, the materials listed above should arrive at the required locations by October 20, 2021. However, we shall continue to accept applications until the position is filled. The selected candidate will be required to provide official transcripts from all degree-granting universities. Texas State University will not discriminate against any person in employment or exclude any person from participating in or receiving the benefits of any of its activities or programs on any basis prohibited by law, including race, color, age, national origin, religion, sex, disability, veterans status, or on the basis of sexual orientation. Equal employment opportunities shall include: personnel transaction of recruitment, employment, training, upgrading, promotion, demotion, termination, and salary. Texas State is committed to increasing the diversity of its faculty and senior administrative positions. Texas State University is a member of The Texas State University System. Texas State University is an EOE. Lecturers The Department of Mathematics at Texas State University anticipates hiring for one or more lecturer positions to begin Fall 2021. The successful applicant will be expected to teach four courses each semester. At least a Masters degree in Mathematics or Mathematics Education or a closely related field is required; however, a Ph.D. in Mathematics or Mathematics Education is preferred. Candidates whose degree is in a closely related field must meet SACS accreditation standards to teach in a mathematics department. To apply, please submit a letter of interest, a current curriculum vitae, a statement of your teaching philosophy, transcripts from all degree-granting institutions, and at least 3 letters of recommendation addressing teaching ability. Applications should be filed through Mathjobs.org. Candidates who submit completeapplications by Monday, May 10, 2021 will receive full consideration. Applications will be accepted until we fill the positions. Texas State University will not discriminate against any person in employment or exclude any person from participating in or receiving the benefits of any of its activities or programs on any basis prohibited by law, including race, color, age, national origin, religion, sex, disability, veterans status, or on the basis of sexual orientation. Equal employment opportunities shall include personnel transaction of recruitment, employment, training, upgrading, promotion, demotion, termination, and salary. Texas State is committed to increasing the diversity of its faculty and senior administrative positions. About Texas State University Texas State University is home to more than 38,000 students and 2,000 faculty members in the growing Austin-San Antonio corridor. A member of the Doctoral Universities: Higher Research Activity Carnegie classification, the university creates new knowledge, fosters cultural and economic development, and prepares its growing population of diverse students for the endless possibilities that await them as citizens of Texas, the nation, and the world. Bolstered by research with relevance and innovation in creative and scholarly work in a full range of academic disciplines and a spirit of inclusiveness, Texas State seeks outstanding candidates for a variety of faculty positions. Additional information about Texas State and its nationally recognized academic programs is available atwww.txstate.edu Personnel Policies: Faculty are eligible for life, disability, health, and dental insurance programs. A variety of retirement plans are available depending on eligibility. Participation in a retirement plan is mandatory. The State contributes toward the health insurance programs and all retirement plans.www.hr.txstate.edu/benefits Texas State University, to the extent not in conflict with federal or state law, prohibits discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex, religion, disability, veterans status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. Employment with Texas State University is contingent upon the outcome of record checks and verifications including criminal history, driving records, education records, employment verifications, reference checks, and employment eligibility verifications. Texas State University is a tobacco-free campus. Smoking and the use of any tobacco product will not be allowed anywhere on Texas State property or in university owned or leased vehicles. Texas State University is a member of the Texas State University System. Texas State University is anEOE. The Community: San Marcos, a city of about 61,000 residents, is situated in the beautiful Central Texas Hill Country, 30 miles south of Austin and 48 miles north of San Antonio. Metropolitan attractions plus outdoor recreational opportunities make the community an attractive place in which to live and work. Other major metropolitan areas, including Houston and Dallas-Ft. Worth, are within four hours. Round Rock, a city of 107,456 residents is located 15 miles north of Austin in the Central Texas Hill Country. Some positions may require teaching on the main campus and at the Texas State University Round Rock Campus. Math CATS (Tutoring) Pi Mu Epsilon TXST Chapter AWM Women Doing Math Math Club Wolfram|Alpha Mathematica for students (free of charge) MATLAB for students (free of charge) Weekly Seminars TExES Test Information Social Media Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Top Mathematics Department of Mathematics MCS 470 Phone: 512.245.2551 math@txstate.edu Site Map About Texas State Careers Emergency Info Legal Apply Now Beginning of video dialog content Close Video Previous Video Next Video End of video dialog content Search Terms Start Search Select search scope This Site All Texas State Close Search Dialog
