Tamas Budavari - Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Skip to main content Skip to site alert Secondary Navigation Menu Close Search Info For Close Info For Navigation Industry Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Give Site Navigation Academics Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Computational and Applied Mathematics Discrete Mathematics Financial Mathematics Operations Research and Optimization Probability and Stochastic Processes Statistics and Machine Learning Duncan Research Fund Dissertations People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students News & Events News Events Seminars and Endowed Lectures Career Resources Life Design Lab Graduate Career Services Employers and Recruitment Alumni & Giving About History Message from the Department Head Employment Opportunities Search Info For Close Info For Navigation Industry You are here: Home Faculty Tamas Budavari Tamas Budavari Associate Professor Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Play background animation Pause background animation Contact (410) 516-7914 [emailprotected] Location 212C Whitehead Hall Connect Google Scholar Tams Budavri, an associate professor in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, is known for his studies in the intersection of observational astronomy and statistics with a focus on a large-scale structure, cosmology, and galaxy evolution. He holds a joint appointment in the Department of Physics and Astronomy and a secondary appointment in the Department of Computer Science. Budavris work centers on computational and statistical challenges of big data. His interests include Bayesian inference, low-dimensional embeddings, streaming algorithms, parallel processing on GPUs, scientific databases, and survey astronomy. His research has been used to understand the dynamics of vacant housing in Baltimore City, to extract high-resolution images of stars in the night sky using repeated exposures, and crossmatch astronomy catalogs. He has made a number of contributions to computational astronomy over the years, including advances in photometric redshift estimation and the development of SkyQuery, an online query tool that combines large volumes of data from separate telescopes. He also pioneered new methodologies to streamline queries of large astronomy catalogs and simulations, such as the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, the Galaxy Evolution Explorer, Hubble Legacy Archive, and Millennium Simulation. Budavri is a member of the American Statistical Association, Society of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and the American Astronomical Society. He was a recipient of the Gordon and Betty Moore Fellowship, Hungarian National Graduate Fellowship, and was a Research Fellow at the Statistical and Applied Mathematical Sciences Institute (SAMSI) in 2012. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, Virtual Astronomical Observatory, Space Telescope Science Institute, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, U.S. Department of Defense, Army Research Office, and the National Institutes of Health. He is an active member of JHUs Institute for Data-Intensive Engineering and Science (IDIES) and the Steering Committee of the 21st Centuries Cities Initiative. Budavri is a founding editor of the Journal of Astronomy and Computing. He earned a masters degree in theoretical physics and a PhD in astrophysics from Etvs Lornd University in Budapest in 1997 and 2001, respectively. He joined Johns Hopkins as a postdoctoral research fellow in 2001. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Open site alert Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Address 3400 North Charles Street Baltimore, MD 21218 Get Directions Contact Phone: (410) 516-4050 Email: [emailprotected] Footer Navigation Apply Now Whiting School of Engineering Johns Hopkins University Legal Navigation Privacy Statement Accessibility University Policies Copyright Compliance Policy 2021 Johns Hopkins University. All rights reserved. Site Menu Site Navigation Academics Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Computational and Applied Mathematics Discrete Mathematics Financial Mathematics Operations Research and Optimization Probability and Stochastic Processes Statistics and Machine Learning Duncan Research Fund Dissertations People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students News & Events News Events Seminars and Endowed Lectures Career Resources Life Design Lab Graduate Career Services Employers and Recruitment Alumni & Giving About History Message from the Department Head Employment Opportunities Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Give Secondary Navigation Close
