Amitabh Basu - Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Skip to main content Skip to site alert Secondary Navigation Menu Close Search Info For Close Info For Navigation Industry Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Give Site Navigation Academics Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Computational and Applied Mathematics Discrete Mathematics Financial Mathematics Operations Research and Optimization Probability and Stochastic Processes Statistics and Machine Learning Duncan Research Fund Dissertations People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students News & Events News Events Seminars and Endowed Lectures Career Resources Life Design Lab Graduate Career Services Employers and Recruitment Alumni & Giving About History Message from the Department Head Employment Opportunities Search Info For Close Info For Navigation Industry You are here: Home Faculty Amitabh Basu Amitabh Basu Associate Professor Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Play background animation Pause background animation Contact (410) 516-7582 [emailprotected] Location 202 Whitehead Hall Connect Google Scholar Amitabh Basu is an associate professor of applied mathematics and statistics. He is an expert in the fields of optimization, discrete and combinatorial geometry, operations research, and convex analysis. Basu utilizes integer programming and convex analysis to break new ground in optimization research. His work aims to provide methods for solving large-scale decision-making problems where a combination of discrete choices and non-discrete choices must be made to optimize a given objective. He incorporates techniques from convex geometry, the geometry of numbers, functional analysis, algebraic topology, and real algebraic geometry to reach technical breakthroughs in mixed-integer optimization. Basus research has practical applications in a number of fields, including Operations Research, Astronomy, and Data Science. His work has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the Office of Naval Research, and the American Mathematical Society. He has published more than 35 papers in nearly a dozen peer-reviewed journals. Basus awards include an AMS-Simons Travel award, a U.S. Junior Oberwolfach fellowship from the Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach (MFO), and a 2015 NSF CAREER award. He was also one of three finalists for the prestigious A.W. Tucker Prize, which is awarded by the Mathematical Optimization Society every three years. Basu serves as an associate editor for two peer-reviewed journals: Mathematics of Operations Research and Discrete Optimization. He is a member of the Mathematical Optimization Society and was previously elected vice-chair of Integer and Discrete Optimization for the INFORMS Optimization Society. He received a bachelors degree in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, in 2004 and a masters degree in Computer Science from Stony Brook University in 2006. In 2010, he earned his PhD from Carnegie Mellon University, where he studied algorithms, combinatorics, and optimization under Gerard Cornuejols. Basu joined Johns Hopkins in 2013 following a three-year visiting assistant professor appointment at the University of California, Davis. He holds a secondary appointment in the Department of Computer Science. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Open site alert Department of Applied Mathematics and Statistics Address 3400 North Charles Street Baltimore, MD 21218 Get Directions Contact Phone: (410) 516-4050 Email: [emailprotected] Footer Navigation Apply Now Whiting School of Engineering Johns Hopkins University Legal Navigation Privacy Statement Accessibility University Policies Copyright Compliance Policy 2021 Johns Hopkins University. All rights reserved. Site Menu Site Navigation Academics Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Computational and Applied Mathematics Discrete Mathematics Financial Mathematics Operations Research and Optimization Probability and Stochastic Processes Statistics and Machine Learning Duncan Research Fund Dissertations People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students News & Events News Events Seminars and Endowed Lectures Career Resources Life Design Lab Graduate Career Services Employers and Recruitment Alumni & Giving About History Message from the Department Head Employment Opportunities Utility Navigation Request Info Apply Give Secondary Navigation Close
