Thomas J Anastasio | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Thomas J Anastasio tja@illinois.edu 42 Burrill Hall Office: (217) 244-2895 Mail to: Dept of Molecular and Integrative Physiology 524 Burrill Hall 407 S. Goodwin Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Video Interview Associate Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Associate Professor Emeritus of Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Associate Professor Emeritus of Neuroscience Research Topics Computational Biology, Neurobiology Disease Research Interests Drug Discovery, Neurological and Behavioral Disorders Education B.Sc. 1980 McGill University Ph.D. 1986 University of Texas, Galveston Postdoc. 1988 John Hopkins University Teaching Interests MCB 493 - Special Topics Mol Cell Biol Multilevel modeling of neurobiological systems in health and disease. Many of the most interesting and important neurobiological phenomena, as well as the pathological processes underlying neurological diseases, involve interactions at multiple levels. For example, certain forms of Alzheimer Disease result from mutations in the genes that code for the proteins that process the beta-amyloid peptide, the build-up of which results in the dysfunction and death of neurons, which in turn lead to failure of the neural circuits and brain regions that mediate memory and cognition. Other multilevel processes are implicated in other neurological and psychological disorders. Our work concerns the computational modeling of multilevel neurobiological process, with a current focus on Alzheimer and other neurodegenerative diseases, mood disorders including depression and anxiety, and eating disorders. By representing experimental findings formally as declarations in a computer program, the multilevel physiology and pathophysiology of various neurobiological processes can be explored through simulation and analysis, leading to experimentally testable predictions and new perspectives on possible pharmacological interventions. Representative Publications Anastasio, T.J. (2010) Tutorial on Neural Systems Modeling. Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, MA Anastasio, T.J. (2011) Data-driven modeling of Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. Journal of Theoretical Biology 290:60-72. Anastasio, T.J., Ehrenberger, K., Watson, P., Zhang, W. (2012) Individual and Collective Memory Formation: Analogous Processes on Different Levels. The MIT Press, Cambridge. Anastasio, T.J. (2013) Exploring the contribution of estrogen to amyloid-beta regulation: a novel multifactorial computational modeling approach. Frontiers in Pharmacology 4: 16. Anastasio, T.J. (2013) Computational search for hypotheses concerning the endocannabinoid contribution to the extinction of fear conditioning. Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience. 7: 74. doi: 10.3389/fncom.2013.00074 Anastasio, T.J. (2014) Computational identification of potential multitarget treatments for ameliorating the adverse effects of amyloid-beta on synaptic plasticity. Frontiers in Pharmacology. 5: 1. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2014.00085 Anastasio, T.J. (2014) Temporal-logic analysis of microglial phenotypic conversion with exposure to amyloid-. Molecular BioSystems 11: 434-453. doi: 10.1039/c4mb00457d Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
