Govindjee | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Govindjee gov@illinois.edu 265 Morrill Hall Office: (217) 333-1794 Fax: (217) 244-7246 Mail to: 265 Morrill Hall University of Illinois, U-C 505 South Goodwin Avenue Urbana, IL 61801-3707 Lab Page Curriculum Vita Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry Professor Emeritus of Biophysics and Computational Biology Professor Emeritus of Plant Biology Education B.S. 1952 University of Allahabad M.S. 1954 University of Allahabad Ph.D. 1960 University of Illinois, U-C Postdoc. 1960-1961 University of Illinois, U-C Oxygenic photosynthesis, history of photosynthesis research, and photosynthesis education Biophysical, biochemical, physiological and historical aspects of oxygenic photosynthesis; photochemistry and biophysical chemistry of reaction center chlorophyll a-complexes and of intact photosynthetic systems; mechanisms of primary photochemical events and oxygen evolution; pathways of electron and proton transport. Current research involves collaborative work with many laboratories in the World (including those at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; University of Hyderabad, India; Jawaharlal Nehru University, India; Institute of Microbiology, Trebon, The Czech Republic, and Centro de Investigacin Cientfica y de Educacin Superior de Ensenada (CICESE), Mxico). Recent interest is in research on the history of oxygenic photosynthesis research (Editor, Historical Corner, Photosynthesis Research), in particular on the bitter controversy on the minimum quantum yield of photosynthesis between the Nobel-laureate Otto Warburg and Robert Emerson, discoverer of the concept of Photosynthetic Unit and the Emerson Enhancement Effect that led to the current picture of photosynthesis. Future history research will deal with the contributions in photosynthesis of William Arnold; Nobel-laureate James Franck, and of Andrew Benson, whose work led to the award of Nobel Prize to Melvin Calvin. Contributions to Photosynthesis Education through creation of Web sites and in the preparation of the state-of-the-art advances in all aspects of photosynthesis and respiration are other major goals (Founding Series Editor, Advances in Photosynthesis and Respiration Including Bioenergy and Related Processes, Springer, Volumes 1-36 are already published). This involves obtaining comprehensive molecular and integrated theoretical understanding of the photosynthetic reactions and their relationships to respiration, and now bioenergy. Representative Publications Ocampo-Alvarez, H., E. Garca-Mendoza and Govindjee. 2013. Antagonist effect between violaxanthin and de-epoxidated pigments in nonphotochemical quenching induction in the qE deficient brown alga Macrocystis pyrifera. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1827: 427-437. Wang Q.J., A. Singh, H. Li, L. Nedbal, L.A. Sherman , Govindjee and J.C. Whitmarsh. 2012. Net light-induced oxygen evolution in photosystem I deletion mutants of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1817:792801. Najafpour M.M., M.A. Tabrizia, B. Haghighia and Govindjee . 2012. A manganese oxide with phenol groups as a promising structural model for water oxidizing complex in Photosystem II: A Golden fish. Dalton Transactions, Royal Society of Chemistry 41: 3906-3910. Kana R., Kotabov E., Komrek O., ediv B., Papageorgiou G.C., Govindjee and Pril O. (2012) The slow S to M fluorescence rise in cyanobacteria is due to a state 2 to state 1 transition. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1817: 1237-1247. Shevela D., J.J.,Eaton-Rye, J-R. Shen and Govindjee. 2012. Photosystem II and unique role of bicarbonate: A historical perspective. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1817: 1134-1151 Nickelsen K. and Govindjee. 2011. The Maximum Quantum Yield Controversy: Otto Warburg and the Midwest Gang. Bern Studies in the History and Philosophy of Science, University of Bern, Switzerland; Institute fr Philosophie; ISBN 978-3-9523421-9-0, paperback, 138 pages. Matsubara S, Y-C. Chen, R. Caliandro, Govindjee and R.M. Clegg. 2011. Photosystem II fluorescence lifetime imaging in avocado leaves: Contributions of the lutein-epoxide and violaxanthin cycles to fluorescence quenching. Journal of Photochemistry and Photobiology B: Biol. 104: 271-284. Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
