Ed Roy | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Ed Roy eroy@illinois.edu 336A Burrill Hall Office: (217) 333-3375 Mail to: Department of Pathology College of Medicine, UIUC 506 S. Mathews Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Video Interview Affiliate, Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Professor of Pathology Professor of Neuroscience Research Topics Molecular Immunology Education B.A. 1970 Brown University Ph.D. 1976 University of Massachusetts Postdoc. 1976-1979 The Rockefeller University Teaching Interests MCB 529 - Special Topics in Cell and Developmental Biology Immunotherapy We are committed to developing immunotherapies for brain tumors that are effective and selective. We use mice as experimental subjects because much is know about their immune system, and the murine system closely parallels the human immune system. When properly activated, the immune system has the characteristics of an ideal therapy: potent, precise killing of altered cells. But there is much to be learned about how to activate, direct, and control the immune response, particularly against tumors within the brain. We focus mostly on T cell mediated immune responses, and work in close collaboration with the laboratory of David Kranz, a T cell biochemist. Representative Publications Soto CM, Stone JD, Chervin AS, Engels B, Schreiber H, Roy EJ, Kranz DM. MHC-class I-restricted CD4 T cells: a nanomolar affinity TCR has improved anti-tumor efficacy in vivo compared to the micromolar wild-type TCR. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 62 (2013) 359-69. Chervin, A.S., Stone, Soto, C.M., Engels, B., Schreiber, H., Roy, E.J., Kranz, D.M. Design of T cell receptor libraries with diverse binding properties to examine adoptive T cell responses. Gene Therapy 20 (2013) 634-44. Thomas DL, Doty R, Tosic V, Liu J, Kranz DM, McFadden G, MacNeill AL, Roy EJ. Myxoma virus combined with rapamycin treatment enhances adoptive T cell therapy for murine melanoma brain tumors. Cancer Immunology Immunotherapy 60 (2011) 1461-72. Thomas, D. L., Kim, M., Bowerman, N. A., Narayanan, S., Kranz, D. M., Schreiber, H., and Roy, E.J. Recurrence of intracranial tumors following adoptive T cell therapy can be prevented by direct and indirect killing aided by high levels of tumor antigen cross-presented on stromal cells. Journal of Immunology, 183 (2009) 1828-1837. Roy, E.J., Sivaguru, M., Fried, G., Gray, B.D., and Kranz, D.M. Imaging Membrane Intercalating Near Infrared Dyes to Track Multiple Cell Populations. Journal of Immunological Methods, 348 (2009) 18-29. Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
