Satish K Nair | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Satish K Nair snair@illinois.edu 314C Roger Adams Lab Office: (217) 333-0641 Lab: (217) 333-2688 Fax: (217) 244-5858 Mail to: Department of Biochemistry 417 Roger Adams Lab B-4 600 S Mathews Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Video Interview Head, Department of Biochemistry Gregorio Weber Chair Director, Center for Biophysics & Quantitative Biology Co-Director, Macromolecular CryoEM and MicroED Facility Member, Institute for Genomic Biology Affiliate, Materials Research Laboratory Research Topics Drug Discovery, Enzymology, Host-Pathogen Interactions, Membrane Biology, Microbial Physiology, Protein Structure Disease Research Interests Infectious Diseases, Metabolic Disorders/Diabetes Education B.S. 1989 Brown University Ph.D. 1994 University of Pennsylvania Postdoc. 1995-99 Rockefeller University Natural products biosynthesis, bacterial signalling, X-ray crystallography Research in the Nair lab focuses on understanding the biosynthesis and use of bacterial natural products. We use biochemical and microbiological techniques, in combination with biophysical methods (in particular X-ray crystallography) to study how bacteria produce these small molecules and how they use these compounds to regulate intra-species behavior or to kill competing species. The development of such natural products can be used to combat the growth of pathogens including bacteria, fungi, and protozoa. Ribosomally synthesized peptide antibiotics: A main research focus in our laboratory is on biosynthetic enzymes that modify ribosomally encoded peptides to yield macrocyclic natural products. We are specifically focused on understanding the mechanism for the synthesis of two classes of such compounds: lantibiotics and cyanobactins. For both classes of natural products, the genetic nature of the precursor and the modular architecture of the modification/processing enzymes may be exploited to yield novel molecules with improved therapeutic applications. Our work on lantibiotics, in collaboration with the laboratories of Wilfred van der Donk land Doug Mitchell (Chemistry: UIUC), has been aimed at characterization of several enzymes involved in biosynthesis. Our work on cyanobactin, in collaboration with Eric Schmidt (Medicinal Chemistry: Utah) focuses on structure-function characterization of enzymatic pathways for the production of these heterocyclized macrocyclic marine natural products. Phosphonate biosynthesis and engineering: We are members of the Mining Microbial Genomes theme within the Institute of Genomic Biology (van Der Donk: Chemistry, Metcalf: Microbiology and Zhao: Chemical Engineering). In collaboration with the members of this theme, we are focused on characterization of enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of phosphonate antibiotics, with the aim of using the structural data to reprogram these enzymes to produce novel compounds. Bacterial inter- and intracellular communication: Bacteria can utilize small molecules as signals and we are focusing on elucidating the mechanisms underlying this process. In quorum sensing, bacteria coordinate population growth by utilizing small molecule inducers (typically acylhomoserine lactones). When the population density exceeds some threshold, these autoinducers bind to their cognate receptor and activate the transcription of various genes. A second class of inter-cellular communication is predicated upon the action of a diffusible signal factors that are chemically distinct from quorum sensing autoinducers. In theory, as each of these pathways are regulated by small molecules, they represent ideal targets for therapeutic intervention against bacterial growth. Representative Publications Cogan, D.P., Ly, J., and Nair, S.K. (2020) Structural Basis for Enzymatic Off-Loading of Hybrid Polyketides by Dieckmann Condensation. ACS Chem. Bio., 15, 2783-91. Kapoor, I., Olivares, P., and Nair, S.K. (2020) Biochemical basis for the regulation of biosynthesis of antiparasitics by bacterial hormones. eLife, doi:10.7554/eLife.57824. Dong, S.H., Cogan, D.P., and Nair, S.K. (2020) Structural Biology of RiPP Natural Products Biosynthesis. Comprehensive Natural Products III: Chemistry and Biology, doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-409547-2.14686-4. Dong, S.H., Nhu-Lam, M., Nagarajan, R., and Nair, S.K. (2020) Structure-guided biochemical analysis of quorum signal synthase specificities. ACS Chem Biology, doi:10.1021/acschembio.0c00142. Chekan, J., Ongpipattanakul, C., and Nair, S.K. (2019) Steric complementarity directs sequence promiscuous leader binding in RiPP biosynthesis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 116, 24049-55. Bothwell, I.R., Cogan, D.P., Kim, T., Reinhardt, C.J., van der Donk, W.A.(*), and Nair, S.K.(*) (2019) Characterization of glutamyl-tRNA-dependent dehydratases using nonreactive substrate mimics. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 116, 17245-250. Chekan, J., Ongpipattanakul, C., Wright, T.R., Zhang, B., Bollinger, J.M., Rajakovich, L.J., Crebs, C.M., Cicchillo, R.M., and Nair, S.K. (2019) Molecular basis for enantioselective herbicide degradation imparted by aryloxyalkanoate dioxygenases in transgenic plants. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 116, 13299-304. Dong, S., Liu, A., Mahanta, N., Mitchell, D.A.* and Nair, S.K.* (2019) Mechanistic basis for ribosomal peptide backbone modifications. ACS Cent. Sci. 22, 842-51. (*Corresponding author) Dong, S., Kulikovsky, A., Zukher, I., Estrada, P., Dubiley, S., Severinov, K.* and Nair, S.K.* (2019) Biosynthesis of the RiPP Trojan horse nucleotide antibiotic microcin C is directed by the N-formyl of the peptide precursor Chem. Sci. 10, 2391-95. (*Corresponding author) Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
