Robert L Switzer | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Robert L Switzer rswitzer@illinois.edu 318D Roger Adams Lab Office: (217) 333-3940 Lab: (217) 333-7098 Fax: (217) 244-5858 Mail to: Department of Biochemistry 419 Roger Adams Lab B-4 600 S Mathews Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry Education B.S. 1961 Univ. of Illinois, U-C Ph.D. 1966 Univ. of California, Berkeley Postdoc. 1966-68 Lab. of Biochemistry, Nat'l. Heart Institute, Nat'l. Institutes of Health Regulation of bacterial gene expression by transcriptional attenuation Our research program studies the regulation of metabolism as exemplified by the control of biosynthetic enzymes during bacterial growth and differentiation. A second research theme is the study of the active sites, mechanism of catalysis and of allosteric regulation of enzymes of nucleotide biosynthesis. A current focal point is the regulation of transcription of the ten-cistron pyrimidine biosynthetic (pyr) operon in Bacillus subtilis, which we have shown to be governed by the protein, called PyrR, encoded by the first gene of the operon. This protein, which also catalyzes uracil phosphoribosyltransferase activity, promotes transcriptional termination at three attenuation sites in the pyr operon. PyrR acts by binding in a uridine nucleotide dependent manner to specific sites on pyr mRNA and altering its conformation, so that a transcription terminator is formed. The PyrR protein has been purified to homogeneity and its 3D structure has been determined. Our current objectives are to characterize the PyrR protein, the RNA to which it binds, and the PyrR-RNA interaction at high resolution. The regulatory activities of PyrR are being examined by physical, biochemical and genetic methods. We are examining regulation of pyr genes by PyrR in other bacteria, including clinically important pathogens. Our laboratory also studies the regulation by transcriptional antitermination of the B. subtilis pyrG gene, which encodes CTP synthase. This gene is regulated independently of the pyr operon by a highly novel mechanism, which involves reiterative transcription or "transcriptional slippage" and no regulatory protein. We are extending our understanding of this mechanism by genetic and biochemical approaches. Prof. Switzer no longer accepts research associates or students because his laboratory was closed in 2008. Representative Publications Jrgensen. C. M., Fields, C. J., Chander, P., Watt, D., Burgner, J. W., II, Smith, J. L., and Switzer, R. L. (2008) "pyr RNA Binding to the Bacillus caldolyticus PyrR Attenuation Protein: Characterization and Regulation by Uridine and Guanosine Nucleotides." FEBS Journal, 275, 655-670. Turnbough, C. L., Jr., and Switzer, R. L. (2008) "Regulation of Pyrimidine Biosynthetic Gene Expression in Bacteria: Repression without Repressors, "Microbiol. Molec. Biol. Rev. 72, 266-300 Switzer, R. L. (2009) "Discoveries in Bacterial Nucleotide Metabolism," J. Biol. Chem. 284, 6585-6594 Elsholz, A.K.W., Jrgensen, C.M., and Switzer, R.L. 2007. The number of G residues in the Bacillus subtilis pyrG initially transcribed region governs reiterative transcription-mediated regulation. J. Bacteriol., 189:217680. [Abstract] Jensen-McAllister, I.E., Meng, Q., and Switzer, R.L. 2007. Regulation of pyrG expression in Bacillus subtilis: CTP-regulated antitermination and reiterative transcription with pyrG templates in vitro. Molec. Microbiol., 63:144052. [Abstract] Fields, C.J. and Switzer, R.L. 2007. Regulation of pyr gene expression in Mycobacterium smegmatis by pyrR-dependent translational repression. J. Bacteriol., 189: 6236-6245. [Abstract] Gerth, U., Kock, H., Ksters, I., Michalik, S., Switzer, R.L., and Hecker, M. 2008. Clp dependent proteolysis down-regulates central metabolic pathways in glucose-starved Bacillus subtilis. J. Bacteriol., 190, 321-331. Chander, P., Halbig, K.M., Miller, J.K., Fields, C.J., Bonner, H.K.S., Grabner, G.K., Switzer, R.L., and Smith, J.L. 2005. Structure of the nucleotide complex of pyrR, the pyr attenuation protein from Bacillus caldolyticus suggests dual regulation by pyrimidine and purine nucleotides. J. Bacteriol., 187:177382. [Abstract] Meng, Q., Turnbough, C.L., Jr., and Switzer, R.L. 2004. Attenuation control of pyrG expression in Bacillus subtilis is mediated by CTP-sensitive reiterative transcription. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 101:109438. [Abstract] Grabner, G.K. and Switzer, R.L. 2003. Kinetic studies of the uracil phosphoribosyltransferase reaction catalyzed by the Bacillus subtilis pyrimidine attenuation regulatory protein pyrR. J. Biol. Chem., 278:69217. [Abstract] Zhang, H. and Switzer, R.L. 2003. Transcriptional pausing in the Bacillus subtilis pyr operon: a role in regulation of expression? J. Bacteriol., 185:476471. [Abstract] Meng, Q. and Switzer, R.L. 2002. "The cis-acting sequences of Bacillus subtilis pyrG mRNA essential for regulation by antitermination. J. Bacteriol., 184:67348. [Abstract] Savacool, H.K. and Switzer, R.L. 2002. Characterization of the interaction of Bacillus subtilis pyrR with pyr mRNA by site-directed mutagenesis of the protein. J. Bacteriol., 184:25218. [Abstract] Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
