Lori T Raetzman | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Lori T Raetzman raetzman@illinois.edu 535 Burrill Hall Office: (217) 244-6233 Lab: (217) 333-7913 Fax: (217) 333-1133 Mail to: Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology 524 Burrill Hall, MC-114 407 S. Goodwin Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Video Interview Associate Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Associate Professor of Neuroscience Research Topics Development, Endocrinology, Neurobiology Disease Research Interests Neurological and Behavioral Disorders, Reproductive Diseases, Infertility, and Menopause Education B.A. 1994 Ripon College, Ripon, WI PhD. 2000 Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH Postdoc. 2000-2005 University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI Teaching Interests MCB 413 - Endocrinology MCB 493 - Special Topics Mol Cell Biol Notch signaling pathway in hypothalamic-pituitary gland development and disease The pituitary is the master gland coordinating growth, fertility, metabolism and the body's response to stress. To exert these effects, the anterior pituitary has distinct cell types that produce thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), growth hormone (GH), and prolactin (PRL). If the development or function of these cells in the pituitary gland is disrupted, two main diseases result. Hypopituitarism, defined as loss of at least one pituitary hormone, occurs in 1:4000 births. Only a small number of cases are caused by known genetic mutations. The other main category of pituitary disease, tumor formation, is very common, with an incidental prevalence of 30% at autopsy. The genetic causes of pituitary tumors are largely unknown and could result from the loss or gain of function of a normal developmental process. Research in my laboratory is focused on understanding the role of cell-cell signaling during pituitary development. We hypothesize that the Notch signaling pathway may play an important role in the proliferation and lineage specific differentiation of progenitor cells in the embryonic pituitary. The Notch signaling pathway is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that orchestrates cell fate choices in a broad spectrum of developmental systems. The core pathway includes two transmembrane ligands, (Delta and Jagged), a transmembrane receptor (Notch), a coactivator (CSL/Rbpsuh) and a downstream transcription factor (Hes). Many components of the Notch pathway are present in the developing pituitary, but their function in this system is unknown. We are interested in uncovering the role of Notch signaling in the normal development of the pituitary and in pituitary disease. We are exploring if Notch signaling is necessary and sufficient for obtaining the full complement of cells in the pituitary by employing transgenic and knockout mice. These studies also take advantage of molecular genetic techniques and whole animal physiology. Awards James Heath Award for Excellence in Teaching (2010) Medical Scholars Program Outstanding Advisor Award (2015) Representative Publications Edwards WE, Nantie LB, and Raetzman LT. (2016). Identification of a novel progenitor marker, grainyhead like 2 in the developing pituitary. Dev. Dyn. 45, 1097-1106. [Abstract] Eckstrum KS, Weis KE, Baur NG, Yoshihara Y, and Raetzman LT. (2016). Icam5 expression exhibits sex differences in the neonatal pituitary and is regulated by estradiol and bisphenol A. Endocrinol. 157, 1408-20. [Abstract] Biehl MJ and Raetzman LT. (2015). Rbpj- mediated Notch signaling plays a critical role in development of hypothalamic Kisspeptin neurons Dev. Biol. 406:235-46. [Abstract] Nantie LB, Himes AD, Getz DR, Raetzman LT. (2014). Notch signaling in postnatal pituitary expansion: proliferation, progenitors, and cell specification. Mol. Endocrinol. 28(5):731-44. [Abstract] Aujla PK, Naratadam GT, Xu L, Raetzman LT. (2013). Notch/Rbpj signaling regulates progenitor maintenance and differentiation of hypothalamic arcuate neurons. Development 140(17):3511-21. [Abstract] Moran TB, Brannick KE, Raetzman LT. (2012). Aryl-hydrocarbon receptor activity modulates prolactin expression in the pituitary. Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 265(1):139-45. [Abstract] Brannick KE, Craig ZR, Himes AD, Peretz JR, Wang W, Flaws JA, Raetzman LT. (2012). Prenatal exposure to low doses of bisphenol A increases pituitary proliferation and gonadotroph number in female mice offspring at birth. Biol. Reprod. 87(4):82. [Abstract] Goldberg LB, Aujla PK, and Raetzman LT. (2011). Persistent Expression of Activated Notch Inhibits corticotrope and melanotrope differentiation and results in dysfunction of the HPA axis. Dev. Biol. 358:23-32. [Abstract] Aujla P.K., Bora A., Monahan P., Sweedler J.V., and Raetzman L.T. (2011). The Notch effector gene Hes1 regulates migration of hypothalamic neurons, neuropeptide content and axon targeting to the pituitary. Dev. Biol. 353:61-71. [Abstract] Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
