Patrick Sweeney | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Patrick Sweeney sweenp@illinois.edu Lab Page Assistant Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Research Topics Drug Discovery, Endocrinology, Metabolic Regulation, Neurobiology, Optogenetics, Reproductive Biology Disease Research Interests Metabolic Disorders/Diabetes, Neurological and Behavioral Disorders, Reproductive Diseases, Infertility, and Menopause Education B.A. 2012 University of Rochester Ph.D. 2017 SUNY Upstate Medical University Postdoc. 2017-2021 University of Michigan Neural circuitry regulating feeding and emotion Fig. 1: Central melanocortin circuitry. Feeding behavior is largely controlled by conserved neural circuitry located in the hypothalamus. These neural circuits are interconnected with brain circuits that regulate diverse physiological and emotional processes, and dysfunction in this circuitry is likely at the core of many metabolic and psychiatric disorders, such as anorexia nervosa and obesity. To better understand the neural circuitry controlling feeding, and how this circuitry is altered in pathological conditions, we focus our studies on the central melanocortin system. The melanocortin system is well conserved across species and is critically involved in communicating metabolic state with diverse neural circuitry controlling emotion, behavior, and physiology (Fig. 1). The melanocortin system is composed of first order pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons located in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (Figs. 1 and 2). These neurons directly sense changes in stored energy via the fat secreted factor leptin, and communicate this information to diverse secondary sites throughout the brain (Figs. 1 and 2). POMC and AgRP neurons produce the endogenous melanocortin receptor agonist alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (aMSH) or the endogenous melanocortin receptor antagonist/inverse agonist AgRP, which together act on central melanocortin receptors (MC3R and MC4R) distributed throughout the brain (Figs. 1 and 2) Fig. 2: Role of AgRP and POMC neurons in energy homeostasis. Importantly, mutations in the central melanocortin pathway produce profound obesity across diverse species, and mutations in the MC4R are the most common cause of severe monogenetic obesity in humans, occurring as frequently as 1:500 individuals. Thus, this circuitry provides a well validated and physiologically relevant system for studying how metabolic state influences motivation and emotion, and for determining how these interactions are disturbed in diseases characterized by pathological feeding behavior. Current studies in the lab are focused on characterizing the response of MC3R and MC4R expressing neurons in physiological and pathological forms of feeding, and determining how POMC and AgRP neurons relay information to secondary melanocortin receptor sites throughout the brain (Fig. 1). To accomplish this goal the lab employs a multidisciplinary approach including in vivo calcium imaging (Inscopix miniscope imaging), optogenetics, chemogenetics, mouse molecular genetics, neuropharmacology, light sheet imaging of neuronal circuitry, and single cell/single neuron RNA sequencing. We hope that these studies will provide new approaches for treating human diseases at the intersection of energy homeostasis and emotion, such as anorexia nervosa. Representative Publications 1. Sweeney P, Bedenbaugh M, Pan P, Fowler K, Williams S, Gimenez L, Downing G, Joy S, Mapp A, Simerly R.B, Cone R.D. (2021) Melanocortin 3 receptor is a pharmacological target for the regulation of anorexia. Science Translational Medicine. 2. Zhang J, Chen D, Sweeney P, Yang Y. (2020) An excitatory hypothalamus to paraventricular thalamus (PVT) circuit that suppresses food intake. Nature Communications. 3. Sweeney P, Chen C, Rajapakse I, Cone R.D. (2021) Network dynamics of hypothalamic feeding neurons. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 4. Ghamari-Langroudi M, Cakir I, Lippert RN, Sweeney P, Litt MJ, Ellacott KLJ, Cone RD. (2018) Regulation of energy rheostasis by the melanocortin-3 receptor. Sci Adv. Aug;4(8). 5. Sweeney P., Li. C, Yang. Y (2017). Appetite suppressive role of medial septal area glutamatergic neurons. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 114(52):13816-13821 (Featured in Nature) 6. Sweeney P., OHara. K, Xu. Z, and Yang. Y (2017). HFD-induced energy states-dependent bidirectional control of anxiety levels in mice. Int J Obes (Nature press; London). 41(8):1237-1245. 7. Sweeney P. & Yang. Y (2017). Neural circuit mechanisms underlying emotional regulation of homeostatic feeding. Trends in Endocrinology & Metabolism. 6(28), 437-448. 8. Sweeney P, Qi. Y, Xu Z, and Yang. Y (2016). Activation of hypothalamic astrocytes suppresses feeding without altering emotional states. Glia. 64 (12), 2263-2273. 9. Sweeney P and Yang. Y (2016). An inhibitory septum to lateral hypothalamus circuit that suppresses feeding. Journal of Neuroscience. 36 (44): 11185-11195. (Featured article) 10. Sweeney P, and Yang. Y (2015). An excitatory ventral hippocampus to lateral septum circuit that suppresses feeding. Nature Communications. 6: 10188. (Featured by Faculty of 1000) School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
