Raven H Huang | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Raven H Huang huang@illinois.edu 411 Roger Adams Laboratory Office: (217) 333-3967 Lab: (217) 244-4280 Fax: (217) 244-5858 Mail to: Department of Biochemistry 419 Roger Adams Lab B-4 University of Illinois, U-C 600 S Mathews Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Professor of Biochemistry Professor of Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Affiliate, Department of Chemistry Research Topics Bioinformatics, Drug Discovery, Enzymology, Host-Pathogen Interactions, Molecular Evolution, Protein Synthesis, Protein-Nucleic Acid Interactions, RNA Biology, Toxins Education B.S. and M.S. 1986 Nankai University Ph.D. 1995 University of Washington Postdoc. 1996-99 Harvard University Molecular mechanisms of biological conflicts In biology, there are two fundamental conflicts: one is between organisms, and the other is between organisms and viruses. During the conflicts, organisms employ a variety of offensive and defensive weaponry to gain the upper hand. My research group is mainly focused on study of defensive systems employed by bacteria during both conflicts. Conflicts between organisms. The main goal of the conflicts between bacteria appears to acquire a larger share of nutrition. To achieve this, certain bacteria (attacker cells) synthesize a variety of biological toxins to kill their neighbors to eliminate competition. To survive, the bacteria targeted by toxins (target cells) employ a variety of defensive mechanisms to neutralize the toxins imposed on them. If the damage done by an invading toxin is irreversible, the only chance of survival is direct inhibition of the toxin. If the damage inflicted by an invading toxin is reversible, however, an alternative approach of indirect inhibition via repair might allow the target cell to survive. The clash between a ribotoxin and an RNA repair system appears to be such an example of indirect confrontation. My research group is interested in discovering new RNA repair systems as well as mechanistic understanding of how RNA repair is carried out. Conflicts between organisms and viruses. Infection of a bacterial cell by a phage triggers a variety of defensive responses within the cell. In our view, the first response is from a primary antiphage system, which is either a ubiquitous DNA restriction-modification (R-M) system or a CRISPR-Cas. The goal of the primary response is to kill phage via degrading phage DNA. If this fails, all hell breaks loose. Recent studies indicate the presence of widespread antiphage systems via abortive infection (Abi) in bacteria, and they appear to be activated as the secondary response to phage infection. While the ways of killing phages by the primary antiphage systems are limited, there are many ways of an infected cell committing suicide (e.g., Abi). It is possible that there exist more than 50 different antiphage systems via Abi. My research group is interested in discovering new antiphage systems as well as mechanistic understanding of how an infected cell commits suicide via Abi. An interesting interplay between these two conflicts. Because of its essential role and universal conservation in all organisms, protein translation machinery is one of the biggest battlefields for the conflicts. This is illustrated by studies, carried out by Kaufmann and colleagues several decades ago, on the conflict between T4 phage and E. coli cells. Specifically, certain E. coli strains encode PrrC, a ribonuclease that is usually sequestered by a R-M system under normal conditions. Upon T4 phage infection, however, the infected cell releases PrrC from the R-M system and cleaves its own tRNALys to commit suicide. T4 phage does not want E. coli cell to die. It therefore employs a RNA repair system, composed of two proteins named Pnkp and Rnl, to reverse the damage done by PrrC. Therefore, T4 Pnkp-Rnl is the first discovered RNA repair system, and PrrC is likely to be one of the first discovered antiphage systems that employ Abi mechanism. Representative Publications Tian Y, Zeng F, Raybarman A, Carruthers A, Li Q, Fatma S, Huang RH* (2021) Sequential rescue and repair of stalled and damaged ribosome by bacterial PrfH and RtcB. bioRxiv 2021.09.22.461353. Fatma S, Chakravarti A, Zeng X, Huang RH* (2021) Molecular mechanisms of the CdnG-Cap5 antiphage defense system employing 3,2-cGAMP as the second messenger. Nat. Commun. 12:6381. Chakravarti A, Selvadurai K, Shahoei R, Lee H, Fatma S, Tajkhorshid E, Huang RH* (2018). Reconstitution and substrate specificity for isopentenyl pyrophosphate of the antiviral radical SAM enzyme viperin. J. Biol. Chem. 293: 14122-14133. Wang P, Selvadurai K, Huang RH* (2015) Reconstitution and structure of a bacterial Pnkp1RnlHen1 RNA repair complex. Nat. Commun. 6:6876. Selvadurai K, Wang P, Seimetz J, Huang RH* (2014) Archaeal Elp3 catalyzes tRNA wobble uridine modification at C5 via a radical mechanism. Nat. Chem. Biol. 10: 810-812 Wang P, Chan CM, Christensen D, Zhang C, Selvadurai K, Huang RH* (2012) Molecular basis of bacterial Hen1 activating the ligase activity of bacterial Pnkp for RNA repair. PNAS 109:13248-13253. Chan CM, Zhou C, Huang RH* (2009) Reconstituting bacterial RNA repair and modification in vitro. Science 326:247. Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
