O David Sherwood | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine O David Sherwood od-sherw@illinois.edu 482A Burrill Hall Office: (217) 333-9099 Lab: (217) 244-1022 Fax: (217) 333-1133 Mail to: Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology 524 Burrill Hall 407 S. Goodwin Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Video Interview Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology Professor, College of Medicine Education B.S. 1961 University of Wisconsin M. S. 1967 University of Wisconsin PhD. 1969 University of Wisconsin Teaching Interests MCB 199 - Undergraduate Open Seminar MCB 413 - Endocrinology Hormonal regulation of birth in mammals: physiological effects of the hormones relaxin, estrogen and progesterone. Relaxin is a protein hormone that is produced and secreted during pregnancy in mammalian species. For more than 20 years Dr. Sherwood's laboratory has devoted research effort toward an understanding of the chemistry and physiology of relaxin. They were the first to isolate and chemically characterize relaxin and did so in two species-the rat and pig. Dr. Sherwood's laboratory then went on to determine the pattern of secretion of relaxin during pregnancy in rats and pigs and to demonstrate that the hormone has vital phsiological roles during pregnancy in both species. Working in concert with estrogen, relaxin promotes growth and softening of both the cervix and the vagina and thereby enables rapid and safe delivery. Relaxin also promotes development of the mammary apparatus and thereby enables normal lactational performance. During the last six years Dr. Sherwood's laboratory has begun to examine the mechanisms at the cellular and molecular levels whereby relaxin brings about its effects on the cervix and vagina. They have discovered that relaxin promotes a dramatic remodeling of the connective tissue. It reduces the organization and density of collagen fibers, reduces the length of elastin fibers and increases the diameter of arterioles. Relaxin also increases the number of cells in the cervix and vagina during the second half of pregnancy, and Dr. Sherwood's laboratory recently discovered that the hormone does so, at least in part, by acting as a cell survival factor. It inhibits the rate of programmed cell death. The work in Dr. Sherwood's laboratory has clinical implications. The incidence of induced delivery has risen rapidly in the United States during the last 10 years, and a safe and effective cervical softening agent is needed to prepare the unripe cervix at the induction of delivery. Dr. Sherwood's laboratory has conducted experiments that demonstrated relaxin's clinical potential as a cervical softening agent. BAS Medical is presently conducting clinical trials with human relaxin for the purpose of preparing the cervix for delivery. Representative Publications Yao, L., Cooke, P.S., Meling, D.M., Shanks,R.D., Jameson, J.L., and Sherwood, O.D. 2010. The effect ofrelaxin on cell proliferation in mouse cervix requires estrogen receptor alpha binding to estrogen response elements in stromal cells. Endocrinology (In press) Yao, L., Agoulnik, A.L., Cooke, P.S., Meling,D.D., and Sherwood, O.D. 2008 Relaxin acts on stromal cells to promote epithelial and stromal proliferation and inhibit apoptosis in the mouse cervix and vagina. Endocrinology, 149:2072-2079 Lee, H.Y., and Sherwood,O.D. 2005 The effects of blocking the actions of estrogen and progesterone on the rates of proliferation and apoptosis of cervical epithelial and stromal cells during the second half of pregnancy in rats. Biology of Reproduction 73:790-797 Lee. H.Y., Zhao, S., Fields,P.A., and Sherwood, O.D. 2005 The extent to which relaxin promotes proliferation and inhibits apoptosis of cervical epithelial and stromal cellsis greatest during late pregnancy in rats. Endocrinology 146:511-518 Sherwood, O.D. 2004 Relaxin's physiological roles and other diverse functions. Endocrine Reviews 25:205-234 Hsu, S.Y., Nakabayashi, K., Nishi, S., Kumagai, J., Kudo, M., Sherwood,O.D., Hsueh, A.J. 2002 Activation of orphan receptors by the hormone relaxin. Science 295:671-674 Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
