Antony R Crofts | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Antony R Crofts crofts@illinois.edu 153 Davenport Hall Office: (217) 333-2043 Lab: (217) 333-7407 Fax: (217) 244-6615 Mail to: Department of Biochemistry 419 Roger Adams Lab B-4 600 S Mathews Ave Urbana, IL 61801 Lab Page Curriculum Vita Video Interview Professor Emeritus of Biochemistry Professor Emeritus of Biophysics and Computational Biology Affiliate, Beckman Institute Research Topics Bioenergetics and Photosynthesis, Computational Biology, Enzymology, Ion Channels, Membrane Biology, Microbial Physiology, Molecular Evolution, Protein Structure Disease Research Interests Metabolic Disorders/Diabetes Education B.A. 1961 University of Cambridge, U.K. Ph.D. 1965 University of Cambridge, U.K. Postdoc. 1965-66, Dept. of Physiology, U.C., Berkeley Structure/function relationships in photosynthetic energy conversion; structure of membrane proteins; mechanism of energy conservation; photosynthesis in intact plants; energetics of the biosphere We use biophysical, spectroscopic, computational, structural and molecular engineering approaches to the study of the mechanism of the bc1 complex. The utility of molecular engineering for modification of protein structure is greatly increased by combining this with other approaches. Most importantly, knowledge of the structure of the target protein from crystallography and spectroscopy and the ability to assay the functional consequences of specific mutagenesis make it possible to explore the mechanism of catalysis at the molecular level. The bc1 complex is central to all major energy conversion pathways. It oxidizes ubiquinol, reduces cytochrome c, and uses the work potential to form the proton gradient that drives ATP synthesis. We study the enzyme from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In membrane vesicles, we can measure kinetics in situ by photoactivation of the photosynthetic reaction center, which generates the substrates for the complex. With crystallographic structures now available, we take advantage of spectroscopic techniques and protocols for protein engineering that allow us to modify the three catalytic subunits, and ask specific questions about the structure using kinetic spectrophotometry, and rapid-mix freeze-quench approaches and EPR spectroscopy to trap and measure reaction intermediates, to probe function and topology of the complex, and the detailed mechanism of partial processes. Our studies have revealed novel mechanisms of electron transfer in the bc1 complex; one involves a dramatic domain movement of the extrinsic domain of the iron sulfur protein; more tentative is another proposal for movement of a semiquinone intermediate at the catalytic site. Detailed spectroscopic studies (ESEEM, ENDOR) allow us to probe structure local to paramagnetic catalytic intermediates that are not accessible through crystallography. Our current work involves the role of semiquinone intermediates, the pathway for H+ release from catalytic sites through water chains, and electron transfer across the dimer interface that complicates the simple monomeric Q-cycle mechanism. We are studying these using a variety of biophysical, biochemical, computational and molecular engineering approaches. The project also involve several local and international collaborative projects. A more esoteric interest comes from attempts to quantify global fluxes in the biosphere. This introduces questions about information fluxes, the role of semantic content and its thermodynamic status, leading to deeper philosophical interests. Representative Publications 1. Crofts, A.R. (2007) Life, information, entropy, and time. Complexity, 13, 14-50 (PMC2577055) 2. Crofts, A.R., Holland, J.T., Victoria, D., Kolling D.R.J., Dikanov, S.A., Gilbreth, R., Lhee, S., Kuras, R., and Guergova-Kuras, M. (2008) The Q-cycle reviewed: How well does a monomeric mechanism of the bc1 complex account for the function of a dimeric complex? Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1777, 1001-1019 (PMC2578832) 3. Kolling, D.R.J., Samoilova, R.I., Shubin, A.A., Crofts, A.R. and Dikanov, S. A. (2009) Proton Environment of Reduced Rieske Iron-Sulfur Cluster Probed by Two-Dimensional ESEEM Spectroscopy. J. Phys. Chem. 113, 653-667 (PMC2773023) 4. Dikanov, S.A., Samoilova, R.I., Kappl, R., Crofts, A.R. and Httermann, J. (2009) The reduced [2Fe-2S] clusters in adrenodoxin and ferredoxin share spin density with protein nitrogens, probed using 2D ESEEM. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 11, 6807-6819 (PMC2773023) 5. Lhee, S., Kolling, D. R., Nair, S. K., Dikanov, S. A. and Crofts, A. R. (2010) Modifications of protein environment of the [2Fe-2S] cluster of the bc1 complex: Effects on the biophysical properties of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein and on the kinetics of the complex. J. Biol. Chem. 285, 9233-9248 (PMC2838342) 6. R.I. Samoilova, A.R. Crofts, S.A. Dikanov, Reaction of superoxide radical with quinone molecules, J. Phys. Chem. A, 115 (2011) 11589-11593 7. S. Hong, D. Victoria, A.R. Crofts, Inter-monomer electron transfer is too slow to compete with monomeric turnover in bc1 complex. Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1817 (2012) 1053-1062. 8. Victoria, D., Burton, R., Crofts, A.R. (2013) Role of the -PEWY-glutamate in catalysis at the Qo-site of the cyt bc1 complex. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1827, 365-386. 9. Crofts, A. R., Hong, S., Wilson, C., Burton, R., Victoria, D., Harrison, C., Schulten, K. (2013) The mechanism of ubihydroquinone oxidation at the Qo-site of the cytochrome bc1 complex. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1827, 13621377 Complete Publications List School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
