Joe Sanfilippo | The School of Molecular and Cellular Biology | University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School ofMolecular & Cellular Biology MCB School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Home Welcome Contact Us Directory Diversity Employment Visitors Brochure Calendar News Faculty Awards & Honors People People / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Faculty Directory Overview Research Topics Disease Research Interests Video Interviews Departments Departments / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Biochemistry Cell and Developmental Biology Microbiology Molecular and Integrative Physiology Affiliated Centers & Programs Theoretical and Computational Biophysics Group Center for Biophysics and Quantitative Biology Neuroscience Program Academics Academics / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology UndergraduateStudies Courses Prospective Students Advising Awards & Scholarships Opportunities Contact Pre-Med MS in MCB program Apply to MS in MCB Estimated Time & Cost Approved Courses PhD Programs Apply to PhD Program PhD Requirements Current Students Graduate Courses Awards, Fellowships & Honors Our Campus Community Research Facilities & Services Resources Resources / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Research Resources Business Affairs Charles Miller Auditorium Electronics Shop Facilities and Operations Faculty & Staff Intranet Information Technology Machine Shop Microscopy Storeroom Virtual Library Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends / School of Molecular & Cellular Biology Welcome Giving MCB Magazine Joe Sanfilippo josephes@illinois.edu 321 RAL (enter through Sanfilippo lab in 323 RAL) Assistant Professor of Biochemistry Research Topics Host-Pathogen Interactions, Microbial Physiology, Regulation of Gene Expression, Sensory Processing, Signal Transduction Disease Research Interests Infectious Diseases Education B.S. (Genetics), University of Wisconsin, 2011 Ph.D. (Microbiology), Indiana University, 2016 Post-doc, Princeton University, 2016-2020 Exploring the intersection of bacteria and the physical world In the Sanfilippo lab, we use an interdisciplinary strategy that combines approaches from biology, chemistry, physics, and engineering to probe how physical forces impact bacterial cells. Bacteria sense shear flow and alter gene expression using rheosensing Using a novel microfluidic-based transcriptomic approach, we were the first to discover that bacterial cells actively sense and respond to flow speed, through a process we named rheosensing (as rheo- is Greek for flow) (Sanfilippo et al, 2019, Nature Microbiology). A major focus of our research group is to discover the molecular and biophysical mechanisms that control rheosensing. Using microfluidics to create realistic bacterial environments Over the past 100 years, scientists have studied bacteria in simplified, static conditions. However, bacteria exist in complex, dynamic conditions in nature. Fluid flow is a fundamental driver of dynamic cellular systems, exemplified by the human urinary tract and bloodstream. In the Sanfilippo lab, we engineer custom microfluidic devices with a variety of heights, widths, and channel geometries to experimentally model realistic bacterial environments. Representative Publications Sanfilippo, J.E., Lorestani, A, Koch, M.D., Bratton, B.P., Siryaporn, A., Stone, H.A., and Gitai, Z. Microfluidic-based transcriptomics reveal force-independent bacterial rheosensing. Nature Microbiology (2019). Sanfilippo, J.E., Garczarek, L., Partensky, F. and Kehoe, D.M. Chromatic Acclimation in Cyanobacteria: A Diverse and Widespread Process for Optimizing Photosynthesis. Annual Review of Microbiology (2019). Sanfilippo, J.E., Nguyen, A. A., Partensky, F., Karty, J. A., Strnat, J.A., Garczarek, L., Schluchter, W.M. and Kehoe, D.M. Interplay between differentially expressed enzymes contributes to light color acclimation in marine Synechococcus. PNAS (2019). Sanfilippo, J.E., Nguyen, A. A., Karty, J. A., Shukla, A., Schluchter, W.M., Garczarek, L., Partensky, F., and Kehoe, D.M. Self-regulating genomic island encoding tandem regulators confers chromatic acclimation to marine Synechococcus. PNAS (2016). School of Molecular & Cellular Biology College of Liberal Arts and Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Contact Us Webmaster Privacy
