Jianshu Cao MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: The Cao Group develops theoretical models for understanding the structure and dynamics of complex molecular systems. Office6-237APhone617-253-1563Emailjianshu@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantPeter GiuntaAssistant Phone617-253-2457 Lab Website Home Faculty Jianshu Cao Jianshu Cao Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office6-237APhone617-253-1563Emailjianshu@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantPeter GiuntaAssistant Phone617-253-2457Lab Website Our group develops theoretical models for understanding the structure and dynamics of complex molecular systems. Establishing relationships between these models and experimental observables allows us to explore new ways of describing chemical and biological processes on multiple time and length scales. Quantum Dynamics Developed in the 1930s, quantum mechanics remains at the heart of physical chemistry both as a working principle and as a quantitative theory. We are currently investigating two areas: (i) energy transfer and conversion in photosynthesis and (ii) quantum-classical correspondence. To achieve high efficiency in collecting and converting solar energy, photosynthetic systems take advantage of the interplay of quantum coherence, protein environments, and self-assembling structures. Understanding these natural processes in plants and bacteria provides key insights into the design of efficient and robust artificial light-harvesting systems. Employing classical trajectories for the optimal control of energy flow and the characterization of spectroscopic signatures of quantum coherence provides an intuitive means to develop these insights further. Related problems of interest include electron transfer, heat conduction in nano-wires, and vibrational energy transfer in dissipative ABA molecules. Single Molecule Kinetics Basic concepts in physical chemistry are taught and understood on the molecular level. Only recently, single-molecule experiments make it possible to detect and monitor dynamic trajectories of individual molecules. To understand these measurements, we focus on two conceptual issues: (i) the nature of the information content of single molecule data and how to best represent this information with mathematically rigorous and physically meaningful models and (ii) the signatures of non-equilibrium steady-states in kinetic networks of enzymatic reactions and in driven processes. In this general area, we also study indicator analyses of conformational fluctuations, Bayesian statistical algorithms for processing single molecule data, and first-principle calculations of single polymer dynamics. Complex Liquids Why do colloidal suspensions freeze into the glassy state? How do protein solutions aggregate or crystallize? What is the orientational order of a mixture of short-coils and long polymers? Answering these questions will address important issues in materials and biological sciences and, in effect, inspire further advances in fundamental statistical theory and simulation techniques. In this fascinating pursuit, our projects in recent years include the derivation and generalization of mode-coupling theory for glass transitions; aggregation, crystallization, and pattern formation of spherical particles; guest-host effects in polymeric materials; and dynamic heterogeneity and other non-hydrodynamic effects. Biomechanics Mechanical emulation of living beings is an age-old dream and has inspired dramatic advances in biomechanics. Amazingly, macroscopic continuum theories are reliable predictors at the micron or even nanometer scale; however, because biological processes in living organisms are subject to non-equilibrium driving forces and stochastic fluctuations, we need to understand non-equilibrium mechanical processes and identify signatures of deviations from continuum theories at the cellular level. In this quest, we are studying three biophysical processes: mechanical responses of red blood cells, lipid-polymer-membrane interactions, and biomechanical couplings in molecular motors. Key Publications See all on the Cao Group WebsiteFrequency-dependent current noise in quantum heat transfer with full counting statistics.J. Liu, C. -Y. Hsieh, C. Wu, and J. Cao, J. Chem. Phys. 148, 234104 (2018)Full text at AIPInterfacial thermal transport with strong system-bath coupling: A phonon delocalization effect. D. He, J. Thingna, and J. Cao, Phys. Rev. B 97, 195437 (2018)Full text at APS PhysicsPhotochemical control of exciton superradiance in light-harvesting nanotubes.S. Doria, T. S. Sinclair, N. D. Klein, D. I. G. Bennett, C. Chuang, F. S. Freyria, C. P. Steiner, P. Foggi, K. A. Nelson, J. Cao, A. Aspuru-Guzik, S. Lloyd, J. R. Caram, and M. G. Bawendi, ACS Nano 12, 4556 (2018)Full text at PubMedGeneric schemes for single-molecule kinetics. 3: Self-consistent pathway solutions for nonrenewal processes. D. E. Piephoff and J. Cao, J. Phys. Chem. B 122, 4601 (2018)Full text at PubMedEfficiency at maximum power of a laser quantum heat engine enhanced by noise-induced coherence. K. E. Dorfman, D. Xu, and J. Cao, Phys. Rev. E 97, 042120 (2018)Full text at APS Physics Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
