Daniel L.M. Suess MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Our main objective is to understand the molecular chemistry that underlies global biogeochemical cycles, with the ultimate goal of deploying this knowledge to improve human health and positively impact the environment. Office18-496Phone617-452-2021Emailsuess@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantJoanne BaldiniAssistant Phone617-253-7372 Lab Website Home Faculty Daniel L.M. Suess Daniel L.M. Suess Class of '48 Career Development Assistant Professor of Chemistry Research Areas Office18-496Phone617-452-2021Emailsuess@mit.eduAdministrative AssistantJoanne BaldiniAssistant Phone617-253-7372Lab Website Researchers in the Suess Lab tackle problems at the interface of inorganic and biological chemistry. Our main objective is to understand the molecular chemistry that underlies global biogeochemical cycles, with the ultimate goal of deploying this knowledge to improve human health and to positively impact the environment. We focus primarily on metal-chalcogenide clusters and materials and the challenging redox reactions they perform. Biological iron-sulfur clusters are now known to catalyze an increasingly large number of complex reactions, including the fixation of inert gases, radical rearrangements, group transfer reactions, and organometallic reactions. In parallel, synthetic metal-chalcogenide materials are being developed as promising earth-abundant electrocatalysts, most notably for reactions that are central to a solar fuels paradigm (such as O2 and H+ reduction). In all cases, obtaining molecular-level mechanistic insight into these transformations has been a significant challenge owing to the structural and electronic complexity of metal-chalcogenide clusters and materials. Work in the Suess Lab addresses these challenges using molecular chemistry, and in doing so reveals the design principles that govern the remarkable reactivity of these catalysts. Researchers study both biological and synthetic systems, and thus hone a diverse set of skills including protein expression and purification, air-free Schlenk techniques, and advanced spectroscopy such as EPR/ENDOR. Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
