Jeffrey I. Steinfeld MIT Department of Chemistry Skip to content Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Menu About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters About Open About Chemistry Directory Diversity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Our Community Values Our History Quality of Life Committee Safety Faculty & Research Open Faculty & Research Faculty Areas of Research Facilities and Centers Instructors Postdoctoral Research and Resources Seminars Academic Programs Open Academic Programs Graduate Program Undergraduate Programs Classes Our Chemistry Education Office Outreach Open Outreach Elementary Schools High Schools Community Relations and Outreach News Support Chemistry Open Support Chemistry Contact our Development Officer Funds to Support Meet Our Major Supporters Events Careers Diversity Login Contact COVID-19 Search for: Professor Steinfeld's research interests evolved from focusing on obtaining kinetic data for physical and chemical systems using time-resolved spectroscopy, to ultimately studying gigaseconds and large, interconnected systems. Office6-213Phone617-452-3882Emailjisteinf@mit.edu Home Faculty Jeffrey I. Steinfeld Jeffrey I. Steinfeld Emeritus Professor of Chemistry Office6-213Phone617-452-3882Emailjisteinf@mit.edu Professor Jeffrey I. Steinfeld came to MIT as an undergraduate in the 1950s, and received his S.B. in 1962. He went on to achieve his PhD from Harvard in 1965, and, following a National Science Foundation Research Fellowship at the University of Sheffield, Professor Steinfeld joined the faculty at his undergraduate alma mater in July of 1966, where he remained an active and influential member of the Department until his retirement in 2007. Over the course of his independent career, Professor Steinfelds research interests evolved from focusing on obtaining kinetic data for physical and chemical systems using time-resolved spectroscopy, to ultimately studying gigaseconds (i.e., years), and large, interconnected systems: specifically, the Earth System, in which we all live and which is, in fact, the basis of all the social, technological and economic systems on which humanity depends.Today, Professor Steinfelds principal activities focus onMIT Alumni for Climate Action (MACA). An outcome of Professor Steinfelds teaching activity is a textbook co-written with Joseph Francisco and William Hase, Chemical KineticsandDynamics. Although currently out of print, the text and associated Solutions Manual can be accessed via this link. Support Chemistry 77 Massachusetts Ave., 18-393 | Cambridge, MA 02139 |617-253-1803 For Emergencies | Accessibility 2018 MIT Department of Chemistry
