Home : Faculty of Graduate Studies : Athabasca University : Athabasca University Skip To Content taxes Toolbar Close AU Canada's Online University Bargaining 2021 Strategic Plan Convocation Research Library AU Store Alumni News Athabasca University Athabasca University Shield Faculty of Graduate Studies Menu myAU Login Help & Contact Get Help Contact Directories Locations Ask a question or explore by topic below: Enter a question: Ask AU Academic Records Admissions Advising Computing Services Courses Exams Fees Financial Aid Programs Registrations AU's general service hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 4:30 pm MST. It is now 11:47 pm (MST). Service availability for specific departments may vary. See important calendar dates. Closed Contact Us Mental Health & Wellness Find a Person Help & Support Media Inquiries Social Media Feedback The Hub Find a Person - Phone and Email Search Departments & Offices Faculties & Centres Faculty and Program Directors Course Co-ordinator / Assistant Listing Student Services & Support A-Z Index Office Hours at all locations:Mon to Fri from 8:30 a.m. 4:30 p.m (MST) AU Athabasca Google Maps More info AU Edmonton Google Maps More info AU Calgary Google Maps More info Faculty of Business Google Maps More info Search Search AU Website Search Search only this site. Menu Close Faculty of Graduate Studies Faculty of Graduate Studies - Home Vision, Mission & Goals FGS Strategic Plan 2018-2022 3MT Western Regionals 2021 Announcements, Presentations/Workshops & Events Open Announcements Presentations/Workshops & PD Opportunities Past Presentations/Recordings Open 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Events Graduate Student Research and Teaching Opportunities Program Information Funding Opportunities / Scholarships Graduate Handbook Open Admissions by Exception Request Appeals Process for Assignment of Grades Concurrent Program Enrolments Copyright Doctoral Dissertation & FGS Regulations Open 1. Doctoral Dissertation Route 2. Supervisors and Committee Members 3. Program of Study 4. The Candidacy 5. Doctoral Candidate Status 6. Ethics/Access Approval 7. The Dissertation 8. Preparation for the Oral Examination 9. Oral Examination Procedures 10. Submission of Dissertation 11. Signatures Appendix A: Flowcharts Editors, use of Electronic Submissions of Theses & Dissertations English Language Proficiency Formats for Theses & Dissertations Forms Open Doctoral Study Master's Study Other Graduate Glossary of Terms Graduate Transfer Credit (ABD) Intellectual Property Guidelines Master's Thesis Route & FGS Regulations Open 1. Thesis Route 2. Supervisors and Committee Members 3. Thesis Proposal 4. Ethics / Access Approval 5. Previously Published Thesis Material 6. Preparation for the Final Thesis Examination 7. The Final Thesis Examination 8. Submission of Thesis Appendix A: Flowcharts Oral Examinations Open 1. Choosing technology for the oral examination 2. Procedures Preceding the Oral Examinations 3. Duties of the Proctor 4. Conduct of the Oral Examinations Privacy of Information Program Deferral Requests Program Extension Requests Roles & Responsibilities of Supervisors, Committee Members & Students Signatures Temporary Publication Restriction of Theses & Dissertations Staff and Student Resources Open Agreements Open Western Canadian Deans' Agreement Publications Research Resources for Graduate Students Universities & Associations Contact Open Dr. Shawn Fraser Dr. Simon Sigu Vikki Bellerose Corinne Boss Krystal Zahara Angela Missler Graduate Calendar Write Site AU LibraryResearch Centre Athabasca University Graduate Students Association Western Canadian Deans Agreement Canadian University Graduate Transfer Agreement (CUGTA) Canadian Graduate Student Research Mobility Agreement (CGSRMA)Journal of Integrated Studies Mariam AwadMaster of Education in Distance Education scroll down ANNOUNCEMENTS FGS Weekly Winners of AU's 2021 3MT Competition 3MT Western Regionals 2021 Award for Excellence in Graduate Student Supervision (AEGSS) Governor Generals Gold Medal Award Winner Canadian Graduate Scholarship Masters (CGS-M) 2021Winners Funding Opportunities / Scholarships Graduate Student Research and Teaching Opportunities EVENTS Calendar of Events Graduate Student Research Conference FGS Presentations/Workshops Final Doctoral Oral Examination AnnouncementKelsey Shields Final Thesis Oral Examination AnnouncementNiall Tamayo Final Thesis Oral Examination AnnouncementRipley Pennell GRAD FACTS The Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MA-IS)Is a graduate program that integrates interdisciplinary scholarship with self, community, and workplace through a process of transformative learning. Aligned with Athabasca Universitys mission as an open institution, the MA-IS program is learner-centred and flexible in its accommodation of diverse students, allowing them to determine their own path of learning according to personal interest and curiosity based inquiry. The MA-IS program facilitates a creative process of emergent learning that emphasizes meaning-making in the 21st century and that aims for the development of socially engaged public intellectuals. Important message to AU graduate students regarding COVID-19 Dear Athabasca University Graduate Students, As Canadians collectively respond to the challenges of the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak, the well-being and success of graduate students is top of mind for Athabasca University and the Faculty of Graduate Studies. Your work and home life has been impacted during this difficult time, and we realize that your project, thesis and dissertation studies may be significantly disrupted. Please know that we will do everything we can to assist you. Most importantly, if you are a thesis or dissertation student, I encourage you to touch base with your research supervisor as soon as possible, if you have not already done so. This is your key point of contact. If you do not have a thesis or dissertation supervisor, if you require a course or program extension or are experiencing a disruption to your research and/or course work, please contact your individual graduate program. All scheduled thesis and dissertation oral exams can proceed, unless you face a significant disruption or hear otherwise from your supervisor. FGS is working with all AU graduate programs to create opportunities for increased connections, such as through the delivery of webinars on a variety of topics and conversation channels, to further support the graduate community. AUs library will remain open for you, so you have access to the librarians and all physical and electronic library materials. Finally, if you are feeling overwhelmed or need additional support, help is available. As an AU learner, you have access to wellness support through Homewood Health 24 hours a day. Please reach out when you need to. The worldwide response to COVID-19 is creating complex and rapidly evolving landscape. AU, as an online education leader, is well positioned to be flexible and adaptable to emerging realities. As circumstances change, we will do all we can to support you in your academic studies. Stay well, Dr. Shawn N. Fraser, Dean, FGS Faculty of Graduate Studies The primary purpose of the Faculty of Graduate Studies is to define and support excellence in graduate education and the research and scholarly activities associated with it. To meet this purpose, the Faculty of Graduate Studies works with the academic units to create policies that define good practice in all graduate programs, achieve high quality curriculum, and promote intellectual communication between graduate students and faculty. This website provides: guidelines and policies that maintain equitable standards across all academic disciplines; resources for faculty members on the nature of graduate education and supervision; and information on opportunities for students to participate in professional and educational development activities outside of their program of study. Welcome Message from the Dean, Faculty of Graduate StudiesWelcome to the Faculty of Graduate Studies! As a graduate student you are a part of our Athabasca University community, both within the faculty of your program of study and within our faculty. We are here to enable a community of successful graduate students, and we provide access to information and resources throughout the completion of your degree. Read more.Staying ConnectedFGS on Facebook FGS on Twitter FGS on Instagram HUB News Feed Loading Posts See all news... Updated December 02, 2021 by Student & Academic Services AU Canada's Online University Athabasca University respectfully acknowledges that we live and work on the traditional lands of the Indigenous Peoples of Canada (First Nations, Inuit, Mtis). We honour the ancestry, heritage, and gifts of the Indigenous Peoples and give thanks to them. A-Z Index Careers Undergraduate Calendar Graduate Calendar Program Plans Give to AU Mental Health & Wellness Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn 2021 Athabasca University is a world-class leader in online and distance education. Based in Alberta and available online around the world, we are Canada's Open, Online University. Privacy Policy
