Faculty of Science and Technology Website Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search Faculty of Science and Technology Athabasca University AUGSOPhoto taken at the Athabasca University GeoSpace Observatory, located approximately 30 km South-West of Athabasca, Alberta.Read MorePhotography SessionPhoto taken during a photography workshop through Science Outreach - Athabasca.Read MoreUnmanned Aerial VehicleDay Camp held yearly for teens held in Athabasca, Alberta. Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology Home Message from the Dean Centres & Programs Research Research Chairs Past Research Chairs Collaborations Featured Researcher Research Institutes Publications 2015-innovations Community initiatives Financial Assistance News & Announcements Professional & Personal Development Our People Contact Us Connect with Us Download a Starter KitApply OnlineRegister for a CourseUndergraduate CalendarUndergraduate Student OrientationGraduate CalendarFaculties Centre for Science Provides effective learning experiences through high-quality distance and online teaching, and pursues visionary research and scholarly activities to advance science and science education. RAIC Centre for Architecture Athabasca University and Architecture Canada | Royal Architectural Institute of Canada (RAIC) proudly present Canada's first online Architectural programs! School of Computing and Information Systems Dedicated to creating online courses that bring relevant and up-to-date computing and information systems education to our students. Important Information on COVID-19 for FST Learners Wildfires: Important information for learners Update for students living in proximity to wildfires. The Faculty of Science and Technology offers an innovative and accessible spectrum of learning and teaching activities in our undergraduate and graduate programs and courses. Students can experience learning in areas of computing and information systems, architecture and science by taking one or more courses, or following a program of study. The Centre for Science also delivers concentrated on-site laboratory activities at various locations in Alberta, Canada. Our state-of-the-art laboratories at the Athabasca campus provides teaching and research opportunities. Students can also take an online course in safety (see WHMIS course). We also offer home laboratories in some courses, where students can participate in exercises that complement their coursework without having to attend formal campus-based sessions. In partnership with the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, the RAIC Centre for Architecture offers Canadas first online architectural program.The programs offered serve three kinds of students: general interest students, RAIC syllabus students and internationally trained architects. The School of Computing and Information Systems offers undergraduate and graduate programs in the areas of computing and information systems, artificial intelligence and gaming design, to name a few. Many of our researchers are regarded both nationally and internationally. Explore our research area to learn more about this vital component of the Faculty of Science and Technology. We are active with industry, schools and the community. Our initiatives include promoting science awareness and creating learning opportunities within northern Alberta Aboriginal communities. We take pride in our offerings and calibre of academics and invite you to explore the many learning opportunities available within our Faculty. Social MediaFacebookTwitterNews and AnnouncementsLearning Caf Hold the DateOctober 27, 2021National Day for Truth and ReconciliationSeptember 29, 2021Accessible design certification an eye-opening experience for AU architectSeptember 03, 2021 Updated August 10 2021 by Student and Academic Services Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
