Dr. Demetrios G Sampson - Associate Professor Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search School of Computing and Information Systems Faculty of Science and TechnologyAthabasca University Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology > School of Computing and Information Systems Home About SCIS History Mission/Vision What We Offer? Research Services Are You Ready to Start a SCIS Program or Course? General Information Why Study Computing and Information Systems? Programs Overview How We Deliver Courses? Course Material Reading Convention Accessing Course Material Financial Assistance SCIS at a Glance Aboriginal Students Women in IT Students with Disabilities Visiting/Unclassified Students FAQs Undergraduate Programs 1-year University Certificate in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems Post-Diploma Undergraduate Course Information Admission & Registration Courses Elective Graduate Course List Elective Courses List for Specializations Elective Courses List for Specializations - UC GDP Course Regulations COMP 495/496 Final Project Course(s) Challenging Courses Graduate Programs Research Research Projects Research Collaboration Publications Guidelines/Policies Related Resource Links Industry Collaboration Research Collaborations Courses for Industry Our People Faculty Dr. Mahmoud Abaza Dr. Maiga Chang Dr. M. Ali Akber Dewan Dr. Jon Dron Dr. Larbi Esmahi Dr. Sabine Graf Richard Huntrods Dr. Vive Kumar Dr. Fuhua (Oscar) Lin Dr. Qing (Ching) Tan Terry Taylor Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Dr. Dunwei (Grant) Wen Dr. Xiaokun Zhang Tutors Mushtaq Ahmad Ebrahim Bagheri Moushir Elbishouty Judy Gratton Goran Jelica Randolph (Randy) Kaltenbach Steve Leung Laura Marik Walter Ridgewell Regner Sabillon Alan Sweeney Dr. Vlad Voytenko Hartley Waldman Adjunct Professors Dr. Ebrahim Bagheri Dr. Nian-Shing Chen Dr. Ronghuai Huang Dr. Mohamed Jemni Dr. Qun Jin Dr. Demetrios G Sampson Dr. George Siemens Dr. J. Michael Spector Dr. Chunsheng Yang Dr. Amal Zouaq News and Events Contact Us Download Starter Kit Apply Online Register for a Course Online Calendar Convocation Library Faculty of Science & Technology Faculty of Graduate Studies Dr. Demetrios G Sampson - Associate Professor Department of Digital Systems 202 Androutsou Building University of Piraeus 150 Androutsou Odyssea 185 32 Piraeus Greece Phone: +30-210-414-2766, +30-210-414-2746 Email: sampson@unipi.gr, sampson@iti.gr Website: http://www.ask4research.info/DS_CV.php Prof. Demetrios G. Sampson holds a Diploma in Electrical Engineering (1989) from Demokritus University of Thrace, Greece and a Ph.D. in Electronic Systems Design (1995) from University of Essex, UK. He is an Associate Professor at the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus. His main research interests are in the areas of Technology Enhanced Learning. He is the co-author of 255 publications in scientific books, journals and conferences with at least 1055 known citations (h-index 20). He has received six (6) times Best Paper Award in International Conferences on Advanced Learning Technologies (July 2011, November 2010, July 2009, July 2007, August 2004, August 2001). He is a Senior Member of IEEE and he was the elected Chair of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Learning Technologies (2008-2011). He is Co-Editor-in-Chief of the Educational Technology and Society Journal, an international journal with Impact Factor 1.066 (2010) on the Thomson Scientific 2009 Journal Citations Report. He is also a Member of Editorial Board of (18) International/ National Journals, including the IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies and Guest Co-Editor in (18) Special Issues of International Journals. His participation in the organization of international/national scientific conferences involves: General Chair in (13) International Conferences, Program Committee Chair in (15) International Conferences, Memberships in (240) Program Committees in International Conferences and Memberships in (10) Program Committees in National Conferences. He has been a Keynote/ Invited Speaker in (19) International Conferences and (18) National Conferences. He has been project director, principle investigator and consultant in 61 research projects with external funding at the range of 12.3 Million (1991-2014). Updated June 25 2014 by FST Technical Staff Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
