Dr. Qun Jin Skip To Content Athabasca University myAU Library Questions? Contact Us Apply Online Search only this site. Search AU Website Submit Search School of Computing and Information Systems Faculty of Science and TechnologyAthabasca University Our People Athabasca University > Faculty of Science and Technology > School of Computing and Information Systems > Our People > Adjunct Professors > Dr. Qun Jin Home About SCIS History Mission/Vision What We Offer? Research Services Are You Ready to Start a SCIS Program or Course? General Information Why Study Computing and Information Systems? Programs Overview How We Deliver Courses? Course Material Reading Convention Accessing Course Material Financial Assistance SCIS at a Glance Aboriginal Students Women in IT Students with Disabilities Visiting/Unclassified Students FAQs Undergraduate Programs 1-year University Certificate in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems 4-year Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Systems Post-Diploma Undergraduate Course Information Admission & Registration Courses Elective Graduate Course List Elective Courses List for Specializations Elective Courses List for Specializations - UC GDP Course Regulations COMP 495/496 Final Project Course(s) Challenging Courses Graduate Programs Research Research Projects Research Collaboration Publications Guidelines/Policies Related Resource Links Industry Collaboration Research Collaborations Courses for Industry Our People Faculty Dr. Mahmoud Abaza Dr. Maiga Chang Dr. M. Ali Akber Dewan Dr. Jon Dron Dr. Larbi Esmahi Dr. Sabine Graf Richard Huntrods Dr. Vive Kumar Dr. Fuhua (Oscar) Lin Dr. Qing (Ching) Tan Terry Taylor Dr. Hongxue (Harris) Wang Dr. Dunwei (Grant) Wen Dr. Xiaokun Zhang Tutors Mushtaq Ahmad Ebrahim Bagheri Moushir Elbishouty Judy Gratton Goran Jelica Randolph (Randy) Kaltenbach Steve Leung Laura Marik Walter Ridgewell Regner Sabillon Alan Sweeney Dr. Vlad Voytenko Hartley Waldman Adjunct Professors Dr. Ebrahim Bagheri Dr. Nian-Shing Chen Dr. Ronghuai Huang Dr. Mohamed Jemni Dr. Qun Jin Dr. Demetrios G Sampson Dr. George Siemens Dr. J. Michael Spector Dr. Chunsheng Yang Dr. Amal Zouaq News and Events Contact Us Download Starter Kit Apply Online Register for a Course Online Calendar Convocation Library Faculty of Science & Technology Faculty of Graduate Studies Dr. Qun Jin Professor, Networked Information Systems Laboratory, Department of Human Informatics and Cognitive Sciences, Faculty of Human Sciences, Waseda University 2-579-15 Mikajima, Tokorozawa-shi, Saitama 359-1192, Japan Phone/Fax: +81-4-2947-6906 Email: jin@waseda.jp Websites: http://www.f.waseda.jp/jin/ http://nislab.human.waseda.ac.jp/ Qun Jin received B.S. Degree from Zhejiang University, China in 1982, M.S. Degree from Hangzhou Institute of Electronic Engineering and the Fifteenth Research Institute of Ministry of Electronic Industry, China in 1984, and Ph.D. from Nihon University, Japan in 1992. From December 1984 to March 1989, he worked in the Department of Computer Science, Hangzhou Institute of Electronic Engineering, China. In April 1992, Dr. Jin joined the Systems Research Center, INES Corporation, Japan. From April 1995 to March 1999, he worked as an associate professor at the Department of Information Science and Intelligent Systems, Faculty of Engineering, Tokushima University, Japan. During the summer of 1997, he was a short-term scholar in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Boston University, USA. From April 1999 to March 2003, Dr. Jin was an associate professor at School of Computer Science and Engineering, the University of Aizu, Japan. Dr. Jin moved to Waseda University, Japan, in April 2003, where he holds a tenured full professor position at the Networked Information Systems Laboratory, Department of Human Informatics and Cognitive Sciences, Faculty of Human Sciences. Dr. Jin has been engaged extensively in research works in the fields of computer science, information systems, and social and human informatics. He seeks to exploit the rich interdependence between theory and practice in his work with interdisciplinary and integrated approaches. He has published several academic books and more than one hundred refereed papers in journals and proceedings, including ACM and IEEE Transactions. His recent research interests include human-centric computing, human-computer interaction, behavior and cognitive informatics, data integration and information fusion, life logs and big data mining, user modeling, social network analysis, information recommendation, sustainable information utilization and sharing, e-learning, e-health, and computing for well-being. Updated June 25 2014 by FST Technical Staff Prospective Students Admissions How to Apply Questions? Contact Us Transfer Credit Course Fees Prior Learning Assessment Education Planning Advising Current Students myAU Financial Aid Prior Learning Assessment Calendar Exams Important Dates Program Planning Student Services About AU How online learning works Accreditation AU at a Glance Office of the President Initiatives Careers AU, CANADA'S OPEN UNIVERSITY, is an internationally recognized leader in online and distance learning. A-Z Index Contact AU Feedback Privacy News Room open. online. everywhere.
