Richard Barr Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Operations Research and Engineering Management About OREM About OREM Why Operations Research and Engineering Management? Message from the Chair Mission & Objectives Contact Us Open Positions Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Weekend Format Master's Programs Student Learning Outcomes Senior Design Archive Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas People Seminars and Gatherings Seminars and Gatherings Invited Seminars Doctoral Defenses INFORMS Student Chapter News & Events Operations Research and Engineering Management People Faculty Richard Barr Richard Barr Associate Professor Operations Research and Engineering Management Contact Phone: 214-768-1772 Email: barr@lyle.smu.edu Professional website: http://faculty.smu.edu/barr/ Educational Background Ph.D., University of Texas, Austin, 1978 About Network and integer-programming optimization algorithms and models for large-scale industry applications Computational data analytics including optimization-based machine learning and data fusion High-performance classical and quantum computing methods for optimization Empirical benchmarking and analysis of algorithms via computational experiments Selected Awards and Recognition Harvey J. Greenberg Award for Service, from the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences Computing Society, 2015 Outstanding Professor, 2009, from SMU Graduate Student Council, Lyle School of Engineering Outstanding Faculty of OREM Department Award, 2005-2006, School of Engineering, SMU Outstanding Undergraduate Faculty Award, OREM Department, School of Engineering, Southern Methodist University, 2002. Outstanding Professor Award, School of Engineering and Applied Science, Southern Methodist University, 1988 and 1989. Halliburton Foundation Award for Teaching Excellence, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Southern Methodist University, 1986. Distinguished Graduate Teacher Award, Edwin L. Cox School of Business, Southern Methodist University, 1983. Faculty Research Excellence Award, Edwin L. Cox School of Business, Southern Methodist University, 1980. School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share
