Thomas Finholt | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Thomas Finholt Back To Directory Thomas Finholt Dean and Professor of Information, School of Information Email: finholt@umich.edu Phone: 734/647-3576 Office: School of Information/4315 North Quad Faculty Role: Faculty Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: Yes Research Areas Collective Intelligence and Organizational Technology Data Science, Analytics, and Visualization Human Computer Interaction (HCI) Science, Technology, and Society Biography Thomas A. Finholt is a professor and dean of the School of Information. He joined the University of Michigan in 1991 as an assistant professor in the department of psychology. From 1997 to the present, his faculty appointments from assistant research scientist to professor have been in the School of Information. In addition to his teaching and research, he has held several administrative appointments in the School of Information, including: associate dean for research and innovation (2006-2010); senior associate dean for faculty (2010-2012); senior associate dean for academic affairs (2012-2015); acting dean (2013); and interim dean (2015-2016). He was appointed dean in April 2016. His priorities as dean include expanding the number of online courses and degrees offered by UMSI, diversifying the pipeline for information technology employment, and applying research at UMSI to increase civic engagement and to improve the quality of online public discourse. Finholt was a co-founder and then director of the Collaboratory for Research on Electronic Work (CREW). Starting in the mid-1990s and continuing for twenty years, CREW pioneered the study of human-computer interaction in organizational settings, including research on many applications that are now commonplace, such as video conferencing and shared document editing. His current research contributions include the organization of a network of faculty across thirteen units on campus to develop an augmented/virtual/mixed reality strategy for the university. He is also active in the sports analytics initiative, where students from various disciplines work with trainers and coaches in U-M Athletics to analyze athletes health, safety and performance using data gathered from wearable devices. Finholt received a bachelor of arts degree in history from Swarthmore College and a doctorate in social and decision sciences from Carnegie Mellon University.Prior to completing his Ph.D., he held a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship. Areas of interest My current research focuses on: the energy costs of forming and maintaining social ties; computational mediation of trust in virtual organizations; and use of ultra-resolution collaboration environments. Education B.A. in History, Swarthmore College Ph.D. in Social and Decision Science, Carnegie Mellon University News How Omid Farivar is building Discords new user experience research team 2012 Master of Science in Information grad Omid Farivar was recruited to start a UX research team at Discord. Courses taught by instructors like UMSI Dean Tom Finholt are shaping his approach. More Info Denise Anthony to chair department at U-M School of Public Health Denise Anthonyhas been selected as the next chair of the Department of Health Management and Policy, effective Oct. 1. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
