Melissa Chalmers | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Melissa Chalmers Back To Directory Melissa Chalmers Lecturer III in Information, School of Information Email: mechalms@umich.edu Phone: 734/417-5942 Office: School of Information/4321 North Quad Faculty Role: Faculty Biography UMSI PhD candidate Melissa Chalmers experience as a restaurant general manager may not seem relevant to her life as a PhD student at first glance, but what she learned about working behind the scenes at a busy brewpub has shaped her research interests in significant ways. Ive always been really fascinated by work that takes place just outside of what seems to be the main story, like coordination or support work, Melissa said. At the brewpub, I directly managed a staff of 50 people whose work is, for the most part, designed to remain unnoticed. Its a job with a lot of moving parts. Sometimes theres an hour-long wait for a table and the kitchen is short-staffed on a Friday night. With customer service, people arent supposed to notice it unless something goes horribly wrong. After completing her undergraduate degree in social anthropology, Melissa worked for a Boston-based public health company focused on international safe motherhood and family planning. It was a chance to observe how work gets done in different projects, she said. I was interested in the story behind that success or failure how work is shaped by funding and contracts and personal relationships as much as by the reality on the ground in different countries. Melissas current research focuses on the invisible work and workers involved in large-scale digitization. In the dream of the paperless office, or even a paperless library, she said, the actual work of analog to digital media conversion is often overlooked. Media digitization is presented as this seamless thing, as if by magic a book or photograph has moved from the shelf to the screen. Google Books is one example where you just access the end point of a tremendous amount of work. Im more interested in these human and machine-intensive processes themselves, in the trade-offs that play out as the scale of digitization increases. Focusing on information work allows you to understand digitization as a technical and cultural phenomenon. Her dissertation proposal focuses on overlapping networked infrastructures supporting large-scale digitization of print materials, such as historical photographs. Studying large-scale digitization from an infrastructural perspective requires understanding production and consumption of digital images and allows you to make connections across time, space and scale, she said. Melissa was drawn to UMSIs PhD program because the faculty works at the interdisciplinary intersections of people, information and technology. Melissa supports interdisciplinary cooperation as a member ofUMs Science, Technology and Society programand theCollege of Literature, Science and The Arts(LSAs) rapidly growing digital studies community. She is also a graduate student coordinator for the annual STeMS Speaker Colloquium and Digital Environments Workshop, which brings together students who study digital culture and media. We want to support meaningful engagement among graduate students who often feel like unicorns in their own departments because of their critical interest in digital culture or media, she said. She recently received the UMSI Graduate Student Instructor of the Year award for her teaching in MSI foundations courses during the 2013-14 academic year. Melissa - who has an MA in Cultural Studies from the University of London, Goldsmiths College, in addition to her BA from U-M - hopes to graduate in 2016. She plans to seek a tenure-track job that combines research and teaching, likely at an I-school or in a communications department. Areas of Interest Print media digitization Information work and workers; digital labor Infrastructure Feminist technology studies; STS History of communications technology and computing Education University of Michigan, BA - Social Anthropology University of London, Goldsmiths College, MA - Cultural Studies University of Michigan, School of Information, MSI (expected) CV Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
