Barbara Ericson | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Barbara Ericson Back To Directory Barbara Ericson Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information and Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering Email: barbarer@umich.edu Phone: 734/763-2285 Office: School of Information/105 S. State Faculty Role: Faculty Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: Yes Research Areas Data Science, Analytics, and Visualization Educational Technology and Learning Analytics Human Computer Interaction (HCI) Science, Technology, and Society Biography I completed my PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia with Dr. James Foley as my advisor. I earned my BS in CS at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan and my MS in CS at the University of Michigan. I have worked in a variety of research labs including: General Motors Research Labs, Bell Communications Research, and the Institute of Paper Science Research. I authored several books on media computation, which is an approach to teach programming by having students write programs that manipulate media. I have worked in a variety of areas including user experience, artificial intelligence, 3d graphics, medical applications, databases, and computing education. I hold two patents in database modifications for case-base reasoning. Areas of interest My research interests include computing education, learning analytics, artificial intelligence, and user experience. I create and test interactive electronic books for introductory computing courses. Interactive ebooks have a great potential for improving learning through active learning, immediate feedback, and spaced practice. Log file data can be analyzed to provide teachers and students with actionable information. My ebooks use principles from educational psychology to improve learning. In particular, I reduce the frustration that many learners feel, by using a worked example plus low cognitive load practice approach. In this approach, students study expert solutions to programming problems and then solve similar practice problems. I focus on Parsons problems in which the correct code for a problem is given, but the code is broken into blocks and mixed up. The learner must select blocks and place them in the correct order. I invented adaptive Parsons problems to better scaffold learning. I am currently studying and refining adaptive Parsons problems. Future plans include creating and supporting a community of learners and authors in online learning environments. I am also passionate about increasing diversity in computing. I created Rise UP 4 CS to help underrepresented high school students succeed in their Advanced Placement Computer Science courses. This project provides additional help sessions to high school students in AP CS courses and uses undergraduate students as near-peer role models and mentors. It uses one of the interactive ebooks I created. Honors and awards Foley Scholar - Highest award to a PhD student at the Georgia Institute of Technology - 2016 A. Richard Newton Educator ABIE Award - 2012 ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award - 2010 Education PhD - Human Centered Computing (HCC) - Georgia Institute of Technology MS in CS - University of Michigan BS in CS - Wayne State University News Two UMSI faculty honored as Distinguished Members of the Association for Computing Machinery The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) has recognized two members of the UMSIfaculty as Distinguished Members for outstanding contributions to the field. More Info Ericson talks women in computer science with BBC World Service Ericson chats about her observations in academia and how schools can do a better job at including women in computer science. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
