Alain Cohn | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Alain Cohn Back To Directory Alain Cohn Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information Email: adcohn@umich.edu Phone: 734/763-2285 Office: School of Information/4340 North Quad Faculty Role: Faculty Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: Yes Personal website Research Areas Collective Intelligence and Organizational Technology Health Informatics ICTs and Social Change Information Economics Privacy and Security Biography Alain Cohn is anassistant professorat the School of Information. His main fields are behavioral, experimental and labor economics. His research focuses on the origins and consequences of social preferences and moral behavior. Cohn uses theories and methods from economics, social psychology, sociology and neuroscience. Much of his work is based on laboratory, field and online experiments, often involving non-standard subject pools such as financial professionals, millionaires and criminals. His studies have been published in top general science and economics journals, including Nature, American Economic Review and Review of Economics Studies. Areas of interest Behavioral economics, experimental economics, labor economics Education PhD, Economics, University of Zurich, Switzerland News SBEE Seminar Series schedule announced Top researchers from around the globe come to Michigan to present their work at the weekly SBEE seminar series, exploring the intersection of economics, psychology, computer science and information science. More Info Cohn: People will lie about vaccination status University of Michigan Assistant Professor Alain Cohn, spoke with USA Today about a persons proclivity to lie about vaccination status when it benefits themselves. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
