Tawanna Dillahunt | umsi Skip to main content University of Michigan School of Information Prospective Students Employers Host a student project Alumni Giving Current Students Intranet Menu Enter your keywords View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here. Programs Arrow Open Menu Why study information? Bachelor of Science in Information Master of Science in Information Master of Health Informatics Master of Applied Data Science - Online PhD in Information Courses Graduate certificates Career development Engaged learning Academic success Student life at UMSI Research Arrow Open Menu Research areas Research centers and groups Student research opportunities Funded research projects Outcomes Arrow Open Menu Career outcomes Internship outcomes Engaged learning outcomes Research with community impact About UMSI Arrow Open Menu Dean's welcome History, mission and goals Leadership team Fast facts Diversity, equity & inclusion UMSI COVID-19 Updates and Resources News Events Newsletters Life in Ann Arbor Getting to UMSI Prospective faculty Contact us People Arrow Open Menu Directory Faces of UMSI UMSI PhDs on the job market Breadcrumb Home People Tawanna Dillahunt Back To Directory Tawanna Dillahunt Associate Professor of Information, School of Information and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering Email: tdillahu@umich.edu Phone: 734/647-8296 Office: School of Information/4360 North Quad Faculty Role: Faculty Potential PhD Faculty Advisor: Yes Personal website Research Areas Human Computer Interaction (HCI) ICTs and Social Change Ubiquitous Computing Biography I completed my Ph.D. at the Human-Computer Interaction Institute (HCII) at Carnegie Mellon University under the advisement of Dr. Jennifer Mankoff. I received a Bachelors of Science degree in Computer Engineering from North Carolina State University and started my career as a software engineer with Intel Corporation. I developed desktop and network products for Original Equipment Manufacturers. While at Intel, I received a Masters of Science in Computer Science from the Oregon Graduate Institute at the Oregon Health and Science University before leaving to pursue my Ph.D. I was a recipient of the IBM Ph.D. Fellowship (2011, 2012), the Fran Allen IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Award (2011), and served on the program committee for FLAIRS in 2011. I hold three patents with IBM Research. Areas of interest My research interests are in the areas of human-computer interaction, ubiquitous computing, and social computing. I am primarily interested in identifying needs and opportunities to further explore how theories from the social sciences can be used to design technologies that have a positive impact on individual behavior. I see an urgent need to explore the use of these technologies in understudied communities. Results from my past studies in the environmental sustainability domain suggest that improved communication provides individual community members with access to new information and helps to resolve common problems. I plan to continue to apply my past research techniques to clarify and potentially meet the needs of understudied communities in environmental sustainability and in other domains such as education and health. For more information about my research please seehttp://www.tawannadillahunt.comand for more information about my research group, please go tohttp://www.socialinnovations.us. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering, North Carolina State University, M.S. in Computer Science, Oregon Graduate Institute at the Oregon Health and Science University M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Carnegie Mellon University, Ph.D. in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Carnegie Mellon University News How Can Communities Best Bridge the Digital Divide UMSI researchers were awarded a grant for their project The Community Tech Workers: A Community-Driven Model to Support Economic Mobility and Bridge the Digital Divide in the U.S. More Info U-M awarded grant to support Detroit entrepreneurs in bridging digital divide An interdisciplinary team from the University of Michigan was awarded $300,000 from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation to train local residents and U-M students to provide one-on-one technology support to Detroit entrepreneurs. More Info See More News Copyright 2018 Regents of the University of Michigan School of Information University of Michigan 105 S State St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285 Contact Us | Privacy Statement Provide Feedback
