Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile Kyle Chard Research Assistant Professor Email: chard@uchicago.edu Phone: 773 702 4107 Office: JCL 303 Website: http://kylechard.com/ Research: Cloud Computing, Distributed Systems, HPC, Scientific Computing Biography Kyle Chard is a Research Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Chicago. He also holds a joint appointment at Argonne National Laboratory. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand in 2011. He is a member of the ACM and IEEE, receivedthe IEEE TCHPC Award for Excellence for Early Career Researchersin HPC, was part of the Globus team that won an R&D100 award, and receivedthe New Zealand Top Achiever Doctoral Scholarship.He co-leads the Globus Labs research group,which focuses on a broad range of research problems in data-intensive computing and research data management. He leads NSF-funded projects related to distributed and parallel computing, scientific reproducibility, research automation, and cost-aware use of cloud infrastructure. My research is motivated by exploring a range of challenging scientific problems and developing and applying new computational and data-intensive approaches. I focus on a range of systems problems, often in high performance parallel and distributed computing, with the aim to develop new techniques for scalable and efficient management and analysis of large data. My interdisciplinary researchhas been applied in several scientific domains, including in biology, earth science, materials science, astrophysics, and archaeology. Find out more about my active research projects on the Globus Labs website The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
