Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile Gordon Kindlmann Associate ProfessorDepartment of Computer Science Associate Professor and Fellow,Computation Institute Address Office:Phone: Email: glk@uchicago.edu Phone: (773) 834-3066 Office: JCL 249 Website: http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~glk/ Research: biomedical image analysis, scientific visualization, systems Biography I research image analysis and data visualization to improve the computation of imaging-based science. Science pairs measurement tools that produce experimental data with computational tools to process the data. Advances in scanned imaging modalities (like MRI and confocal microscopy) are constantly increasing the speed, resolution, and sophistication of image measurements. Scientists can now form hypotheses and conduct experiments faster than they can find or create the computational analysis best matched to their new image data. Unfortunately, the process of creating new software remains slow or opaque for many people, and advances in parallel computing (required for large images) complicate the process even for experts. I collaborate with physical and biomedical researchers who acquire image data to answer scientific questions. My research simplifies how informative visualizations are created, and improves how relevant image features are detected, sampled, and quantified. I am also interested in the theoretical and perceptual bases of effective data visualization. I foster re-usable and reproducible computational science by making all my research software open-source. The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
