Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile David Uminsky Senior Research Associate and Executive Director for Data Science Department of Computer Science Email: uminsky@uchicago.edu Research: Dynamical Systems, Machine Learning, Pattern Formation, Signal Processing Biography David Uminsky joined the University of Chicago in September 2020 as a senior research associate and Executive Director of Data Science. He was previously an associate professor of Mathematics and Executive Director of the Data Institute at University of San Francisco (USF). His research interests are in machine learning, signal processing, pattern formation, and dynamical systems.David is an associate editor of theHarvard Data Science Review. He was selected in 2015 by the National Academy of Sciences as a Kavli Frontiers of Science Fellow. He is also the founding Director of the BS in Data Science at USF and served as Director of the MS in Data Science program from 2014-2019. During the summer of 2018, David served as the Director of Research for the Mathematical Science Research Institute Undergrad Program on the topic of Mathematical Data Science. Before joining USF he was a combined NSF and UC President's Fellow at UCLA, where he was awarded the Chancellor's Award for outstanding postdoctoral research. He holds a Ph.D. in Mathematics from Boston University and a BS in Mathematics from Harvey Mudd College. The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
