Computer Science The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science Skip navigation Toggle navigation About Chair's Message Our New Building Give to CS Visit Us News Event Calendar Administrative Information Information for Faculty Info for Students and Postdocs Room Reservation Computing Information Remote2020 PEOPLE Faculty MPCS Faculty Postdoc & Students CASE Affiliations Staff Research Research Areas Research Labs Partners Facilities Techreports Undergraduate Program Overview FAQ for CS Major Joint BX/MS Program Courses and Waitlist Get Involved Career Advice Student Summer Research Fellowship Program Graduate PhD Program Joint Math/CS PhD Program Masters Programs Courses Get Involved Resources for current & incoming students Weekly Coffee Hours Admission Why UChicago CS? Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admissions FAQ Industry Diversity Apply Join Us! Enter Search Below Search Profile Marshini Chetty Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Email: marshini@uchicago.edu Phone: 773-702-2323 Office: JCL 355 Website: http://www.cs.uchicago.edu/~marshini Research: Human-Computer Interaction, privacy, Security, ubiquitous computing, Usable security Biography Marshini Chetty is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Chicago, where she co-directs theAmyoli Internet Research Labor AIR lab. She specializes in human-computer interaction, usable privacy and security, and ubiquitous computing. Marshini designs, implements, and evaluates technologies to help users manage different aspects of Internet use from privacy and security to performance, and costs. She often works in resource-constrained settings and uses her work to help inform Internet policy. She has a Ph.D. in Human-Centered Computing from Georgia Institute of Technology, USA and a Masters and Bachelors in Computer Science from the University of Cape Town, South Africa. In her former lives, Marshini was on the faculty in the Computer Science Department at Princeton University and the College of Information Studies at the University of Maryland, College Park. Her work has won best paper awards at SOUPS, CHI, and CSCW and has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the National Security Agency, Intel, Microsoft, Facebook, and multiple Google Faculty Research Awards. The University of Chicago Department of Computer Science 5730 S. Ellis Avenue John Crerar Library Chicago, IL 60637 P: 773.702.6614 F: 773.702.8487 Email: cswebmaster@cs.uchicago.edu News Events Support CS Visit Us Apply Faculty Positions Recruit Students Diversity facebook twitter linkedin youtube 2021 The University of Chicago
