David S. Matteson | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty David S. Matteson David S. Matteson Associate Department Chair; Associate Professor Department of Statistics and Data Science (CIS) and the Department of Social Statistics (ILR) David S. Matteson is Associate Department Chair and AssociateProfessor of Statistics and Data Scienceand Social Statisticsat Cornell University, where he is a member of theILR School,Center for Applied Mathematics,Field of Operations Research, and theProgram in Financial Engineering, and teaches statistics and financial engineering courses. Professor Matteson received his PhD in Statistics at the University of Chicago (2008) and his BSB in Finance, Mathematics, and Statistics at the University of Minnesota (2003). He has received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (2015), a Faculty Research Award from the Xerox/PARC Foundation (2014), and Best Paper Awards from the annual R/Finance conference (2011, 2013) and the National Association of Rehabilitation Research (2015). He is an Associate Editor of the Journal of the American Statistical Association-Theory and Methods, Biometrics, and Statistica Sinica. He is an Officer for the Business and Economic Statistics Section of the American Statistical Association, and a member of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and the International Biometric Society. He is coauthor ofStatistics and Data Analysis for Financial Engineering(2nd ed., Springer, 2015). RESEARCH INTERESTS I am particularly interested in high dimensional data analysis, which has become one of the most important areas of statistical research, with applications in many fields. While many recent efforts have attempted to incorporate mathematical and contextual constraints into analysis, most work on these difficult problems has focused on independent observations. I have found dependence to be a valuable source of additional information, not merely an additional complexity, and I endeavor to make major contributions to this exciting new field. As a data scientist,my primary research focus has involved the analysis of complex bigdata and the development of accompanying statistical methodology. This includes data structured by time indices or spatial locations, as well as functional and network structured data.My research has been heightened by biological, environmental, financial,operational and sociologicalapplications. My collaborations with scientists and industryprofessionals continue to be mutually rewarding and personally enjoyable.My research interests include: Applied Biophysics Bayesian Analysis Biostatistics Dimension Reduction Disability Emergency Medical Services Financial Econometrics Functional Data Analysis Machine Learning Multivariate Statistics Neuroscience Nonparametrics Point Processes Semiparametrics Signal Processing Spatio-Temporal Modeling Sustainable Energy Time Series Publications My most current preprints are here:arXiv.org. Preprints Risk, B., Matteson, D.S. and Ruppert, D. (2015), Likelihood Component Analysis. Tupper, L., Matteson, D.S., and Anderson, C.L. (2015), Band Depth Clustering for Nonstationary TimeSeries and Wind Speed Behavior. James, N.A. and Matteson, D.S. (2015), Change Points via Probabilistically Pruned Objectives. Zhou, Z., and Matteson, D.S. (2015), Predicting Melbourne Ambulance Demand Using Kernel Warping. Nicholson, W.B., Matteson, D.S. and Bien, J. (2015), VARX-L: Structured Regularization for Large VectorAutoregressions with Exogenous Variables. James, N.A., Kejariwal, A. and Matteson, D.S. (2015), Leveraging Cloud Data to Mitigate User Experiencefrom Breaking Bad: The Twitter Approach. Nicholson, W.B., Bien, J. and Matteson, D.S. (2015), HVAR: High Dimensional Forecasting via Interpretable Vector Autoregression. Kowal, D.R., Matteson, D.S. and Ruppert, D. (2015), A Bayesian Multivariate Functional Dynamic LinearModel. Articles Matteson, D.S. and Tsay, R.S. (2015), Independent Component Analysis via Distance Covariance, ToAppear, Journal of the American Statistical Association. Westgate, B.S., Woodard, D.B., Matteson, D.S. and Henderson, S.G. (2015), Large-Network Travel TimeEstimation for Ambulance Fleet Management, To Appear, European Journal of Operational Research. Zhou, Z., Matteson, D.S., Woodard, D.B., Micheas, A.C. and Henderson, S.G. (2015), A Spatio-TemporalPoint Process Model for Ambulance Demand, Journal of the American Statistical Association, Vol. 110,No. 509, 6-15. Zhou, Z., and Matteson, D.S. (2015), Predicting Ambulance Demand: A Spatio-Temporal Kernel Approach, Proceedings of the 21st ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and DataMining (KDD), 2297-2303. James, N.A. and Matteson, D.S. (2015), ecp: An R Package for Nonparametric Multiple Change PointAnalysis of Multivariate Data, Journal of Statistical Software, Vol. 62, No. 7: 1-25. Matteson, D.S. and James, N.A. (2014), A Nonparametric Approach for Multiple Change Point Analysisof Multivariate Data, Journal of the American Statistical Association, Vol. 109, No. 505, 334-345. Risk, B., Matteson, D.S., Ruppert, D., Eloyan, A. and Cao, B. (2014), An Evaluation of IndependentComponent Analyses with an Application to Resting State fMRI, Biometrics, Vol. 70, No. 1: 224-236. Erickson, W.A., von Schrader, S., Bruyre, S., VanLooy, S., and Matteson, D.S. (2014) Disability-InclusiveEmployer Practices and Hiring of Individuals with Disabilities, Rehabilitation Research, Policy, and Education, Vol. 28, No. 4, 309-328. Matteson, D.S., James, N.A., Nicholson, W.B. and Segalini, L.C. (2013), Locally Stationary VectorProcesses and Adaptive Multivariate Modeling, Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, IEEE, 8722-8726. Westgate, B.S., Woodard, D.B., Matteson, D.S. and Henderson, S.G. (2013), Travel Time Estimation forAmbulances using Bayesian Data Augmentation, Annals of Applied Statistics, Vol. 7, No. 2, 1139-1161. Holan, S.H., Yang, W.-H., Matteson, D.S. and Wikle, C.K. (2012), An Approach for Identifying andPredicting Economic Recessions in Real-Time Using Time-Frequency Functional Models, Applied StochasticModels in Business and Industry, Vol. 28, No. 6, 485-499. Holan, S.H., Yang, W.-H., Matteson, D.S. and Wikle, C.K. (2012), Rejoinder, An Approach for Identifying and Predicting Economic Recessions in Real-Time Using Time-Frequency Functional Models,Applied Stochastic Models in Business and Industry, Vol. 28, No. 6, 504-505. Matteson, D.S. and Ruppert, D. (2011), GARCH Models of Dynamic Volatility and Correlation, SignalProcessing Magazine, IEEE, Vol. 28, No. 5, 72-82. Woodard, D.B., Matteson, D.S. and Henderson S.G. (2011), Stationarity of Generalized AutoregressiveMoving Average Models, Electronic Journal of Statistics, Vol. 5, No. 0, 800-828. Matteson, D.S., McLean, M.W., Woodard, D.B. and Henderson, S.G. (2011), Forecasting EmergencyMedical Service Call Arrival Rates, Annals of Applied Statistics, Vol. 5, No. 2B, 1379-1406. Matteson, D.S. and Tsay, R.S. (2011), Dynamic Orthogonal Components for Multivariate Time Series,Journal of the American Statistical Association, Vol. 106, No. 496, 1450-1463. Matteson, D.S. and Tsay, R.S. (2007), High Dimensional Volatility Models, JSM Proceedings, Businessand Economics Statistics Section, Alexandria, VA: American Statistical Association, 1006-1013. Textbook Ruppert, D., Matteson, D.S. (2015).Statistics and Data Analysis for Financial Engineering(2nd ed., pp.721). New York, NY: Springer. Book Chapters Matteson, D.S., James, N.A. and Nicholson, W.B. (2015), Statistical Measures of Dependence For Financial Data, In Press, Financial Signal Processing and Machine Learning, Wiley. Zhou, Z. and Matteson, D.S. (2015), Temporal and Spatio-Temporal Models for Ambulance Demand, InPress,Healthcare Data Analysis, Wiley. R Packages steadyICA ICA and Tests of Independence via Multivariate Distance Covariance(2015) Risk, B., James, N.A. and Matteson, D.S. bigVAR Dimension Reduction Methods for Multivariate Time Series(2014) Nicholson, W.B., Bien, J. and Matteson, D.S. ecp Nonparametric Multiple Change Point Analysis of Multivariate Data(2013) James, N.A. and Matteson, D.S. ica4fts Independent Components for Time Series(2009) Ang, E. and Matteson, D.S. Contact Info 607-255-6231 matteson@cornell.edu Comstock Hall-Academic II, Room 1196 Cornell.edu Profile David S. Matteson's Homepage Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
