Nicholas Kiefer | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Statistics Graduate Society Recently Published Papers Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty Nicholas Kiefer Nicholas Kiefer Ta-Chung Liu Professor Economics Professor Nicholas M.Kiefer is in the departments of economics and statistics and data science (DS2)and is a member of the graduate field faculty in economics, statistics and hospitality administration at Cornell University. Professor Kiefer works primarily in econometrics and statistics with applications in financial economics, credit scoring and risk management in banking,consumer trend forecasting, and development of quantitative management techniques. Previously, Kiefer worked on developing structural job search models and subsequently equilibrium search models. His work on the value of information, using a dynamic programming framework, led to results on the possibility and potential optimality of learning. Subsequent theoretical and empirical work on market microstructure led to invention of the PIN, a widely used statistic for measuring the information content of trades. Recently, Kiefer has developed a new approach to asymptotic approximations for use in testing problems in dynamic models. Most recently, Kiefer is developing methods for inference about small probabilities, with special interest in banking applications and the formal incorporation of expert information using Bayesian techniques. The unifying theme of the work is the complementary use of statistics and economic theory.Both statistical modeling and theoretical modeling are seen as tools to summarize and focus information. Theory and econometrics are treated as similar, complementary activities, not separate fields. This view is reflected in hisbook with B.J. ChristensenEconomic Modeling and Inference. Publications Books Econometric Modeling and Inference(with Bent Jesper Christensen), Princeton University Press, 2009 Empirical Labor Economics: The Search Approach(with Theresa J. Devine), Oxford University Press, 1991 Search Models and Applied Labor Economics(with George R. Neumann), Cambridge University Press, 1989. Also inpaperback. Panel Data and Structural Labour Market Models(edited with H. Bunzel , Bent J. Christensen , Peter Jensen, and Dale T. Mortensen), Elsevier, Contributions to Economic Analysis v. 243, 2000. 2nd edition, Emerald Publishing Group. Special Issue on the Microeconometrics of Dynamic Decision Making, Journal of Applied Econometrics, (edited with Arie Kapteyn and John Rust),Volume 10, Supplement, December, 1995 Papers Bayesian Methods for Default Estimation in Low Default Portfolios, Presented at the BIS, Basel, March 2007 Improving robust model selection tests for dynamic models(with H. Choi), October, 2006.Econometrics Journal, forthcoming. Default Estimation and Expert Information,Journal of Business and Economic Statistics, 2010, 28(2): 320-328. doi:10.1198/jbes.2009.07236 The Smooth Colonel Meets the Reverend(w. J. Racine), April 2008.Journal of Nonparametric Statistics, Volume 21, Number 5, July 2009 , pp. 521-533(13) Annual Default Rates are Probably Less Than Long-Run Average Annual Default Rates,Journal of Fixed Income, Fall 2008, Vol. 18, No. 2: pp. 85-87 DOI: 10.3905/jfi.2008.712352 Contact Info 607-255-5617 nicholas.kiefer@cornell.edu 490 Uris Hall Cornell.edu Profile Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
