Melissa Smith | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty Melissa Smith Melissa Smith Senior Lecturer PhD Department of Statistics and Data Science Melissa Smith is a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Statistics and Data Science. She joined the faculty in January 2013. She received an A.B. in Mathematics from Dartmouth College. She completed a PhD in Biostatistics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1996. Her previous positions were at the Indiana University School of Medicine in the Department of Biostatistics, the Marion County Health Department (Indianapolis) and the Cornell Statistical Consulting Unit (CSCU). She works in applied statistics on problems in medicine, public health and health policy. Office Hours Tuesday 3 to 4 p.m. Wednesday 11 a.m. to noon Thursday 4 to 5 p.m. Other times by appointment. Email me to make arrangements. Contact Info 607-255-4411 ms429@cornell.edu 295 Ives Hall Courses Taught Categorical Data Analysis Introductory Statistics for Biology Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
