Yang Ning | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty Yang Ning Yang Ning Assistant Professor Department of Statistics and Data Science Yang Ning comes to Cornell as an Assistant Professor after completing a postdoc fellowship at Princeton University, where he developed statistical methods and theory for analyzing big and complex data. He has been awarded the David Byar Young Investigator Award and has his papers published in Biometrika and the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Ning obtained a Bachelor's degree in Mathematics from Fudan University, China, and a Ph.D degree in Biostatisticsfrom the Johns Hopkins University. The theme of his research is to develop statistical methods and theory toquantify the uncertainty(confidence interval and hypothesis test) in modern data sets, which are characterized by high dimensionality, complexity and heterogeneity. Heenjoys working at the interface ofmathematical statistics,machine learningandstochastic optimization. He isalso interested in applied projects ingenomics, Neuroscience, epidemiology and clinical trials. Publications For a fulllist of publications, please see Ning'spersonal webpage. Contact Info 607-255-3759 yn265@cornell.edu Comstock Hall 1188 Personal Webpage Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
