James Booth | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty James Booth James Booth Professor; Director of Graduate Studies PhD Department of Statistics and Data Science I am currently a Professor in the Department ofStatistics and Data Scienceat Cornell University, one of three departments inComputing and Information Science. I visited the Department of Operations Research and Information Engineering at Cornell in 2003, and was hired in the Department of Biological Statistics and Computational Biology, in the College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, the following year. From 1987 to 2003 I was a faculty member in theDepartment of Statisticsat the University of Florida. During that period I spent two years as a Research Fellow at the Australian National University, and one year at Colorado State University. My research interests involve basic statistical methodology including: the bootstrap and Monte Carlo methods, clustering, exact inference, mixed models, generalized linear models, and also applications in bioinformatics. I have taught a variety of courses at Cornell includingStatistical Methods II, the second semester of a statistical methods sequence for graduate students from a wide variety of disciplines,Biological Statistics I,Data Science for All, as well as core courses for statistics undergraduates, professional masters students, and Ph.D. students in the Fields of Statistics. As a CALS faculty member in SDS part of my teaching effort involves contributions to the campus-wide statistical consulting service through theCornell Statistical Consulting Unit. Publications Statistical Methodology Gaynanova, I., Booth, J. G. & Wells, M. T. (2016). Simultaneous sparse estimation of canonical vectors in the p>>n setting. Journal of the American Statistical Association 111, 696706. Published online 16 Apr 2015. Bar, Booth, Wells (2014), "A bivariate model for simultaneous testing in bioinformatics data", Journal of the American Statistical Association 109(506):537-547. Kormaksson, Booth, Figueroa and Melnick (2012)"Integrative model-based clustering of microarray methylation and expression data".Annals of Applied Statistics6(3):1327-1347. Bar, Booth, Schifano and Wells (2010), "Laplace approximated EM Microarray Analysis: an empirical Bayes approach for comparative microarray experiments".Statistical Science25(3):388-407. Please contact Haim Barat the University of Connecticuttwith questions about the Lemma software package. Booth, Federer, Wells and Wolfinger (2009), "A multivariate variance component model for analysis of covariance in designed experiments",Statistical Science24(2):223-237. Applications Sarah E. Lyons, Zhehan Tang, James Booth, Quirine M. Ketterings (2018),"Nitrogen Response Models for Winter Cereals Grown for Forage",Journal of Agronomy and Crop Science. Salerno, S., Mehrmohamadi, M., Liberti, M.V., Wan, M., Wells, M.T., Booth, J.G. and Locasale, J.W., (2017),"RRmix: A method for simultaneous batch effect correction analysis of metabolomics data in the absence of internal standards",PLoS ONE. Love, W., Zawack, K., Booth, J.G., Grohn, Y.T and Lanzas, C. (2016), "Markov networks of collateral resistance: National antimicrobial resistance monitoring system surveillance results from Escherichia coli Isolates, 2004-2012",PLoS Computational Biology, 12: e1005160. Eilertson, Booth, Bustamante (2012) "SnIPRE: Selection inference using a Poisson random effects model"PLoS Computational Biology8(12): e1002806. Hirschl, Booth, Glenna and Green (2012),"Politics, religion, and society: Is the United States experiencing a period of religious-political polarization?",Review of European Studies4(4) Contact Info jim.booth@cornell.edu 1172 Comstock Hall Cornell.edu Profile Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
