Christophe Giraud | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleFaculty Christophe Giraud Christophe Giraud Adjunct Professor Department of Statistics and Data Science Christophe Giraud was a student of the cole Normale Suprieure de Paris, and he received a Ph.D in probability theory from the University Paris 6. He was assistant professor at the University of Nice from 2002 to 2008. He has been associate professor at the cole Polytechnique since 2008 and professor at Paris Sud University (Orsay) since 2012. He is Associate Editor for JASA (Journal American Statistical Association). Areas of Research / Professional Expertise My favorite topics include theory for high-dimensional statistics and fine modeling and statistics for Life Sciences (including Ecology, omics data and medicine). Contact Info cg582@cornell.edu Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
