Ahmed El Alaoui | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Statistics Graduate Society Recently Published Papers Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty Ahmed El Alaoui Ahmed El Alaoui Assistant Professor Department of Statistics and Data Science Ahmed El Alaoui joined the SDS faculty as an assistant professor in January 2021. Hereceived his PhD in 2018 in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences from UC Berkeley, advised by Michael I. Jordan. He was afterwards a postdoctoral researcher at Stanford University, hosted by Andrea Montanari. He is currently a Simons-Berkeley research fellow at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computingat UC Berkeley. His research interests revolve around high-dimensional phenomena in statistics and probability theory, statistical physics, algorithms, and problems where these areas meet. Contact Info ae333@cornell.edu Personal Website Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
