Florentina Bunea | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Statistics Graduate Society Recently Published Papers Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty Florentina Bunea Florentina Bunea Professor Department of Statistics and Data Science I am a faculty member of the Department of Statistics and Data Science, a member of the Center for Applied Mathematics (CAM) and a member of the Machine Learning Group in CIS. As a member of the CIS Diversity and Inclusion Council, I am committed to promoting the diversity of the work force in data-science disciplines. My research is broadly centered on statistical machine learning theory and high-dimensional statistical inference. I am interested in developing new methodology accompanied by sharp theory for solving a variety of problems in data science. Recent research projects include high-dimensional latent-space clustering, cluster-based inference, network modeling, inference in high dimensional models with hidden latent structure and topic models. I continue to be interested in the general areas of model selection, sparsity and dimension reduction in high dimensions, and in applications to genetics, systems immunology, neuroscience, sociology, among other disciplines. My research is funded in part by the National Science Foundation (NSF-DMS). I am a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS). I have served or am currently serving as an Associate Editor for a number of journals (the Annals of Statistics, Bernoulli, JASA, JRSS-B, EJS, the Annals of Applied Statistics). Contact Info 607-255-8449 fb238@cornell.edu 1184 Comstock Hall Florentina Bunea's Website Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
