David Ruppert | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleField Faculty David Ruppert David Ruppert Andrew Schultz Jr. Professor of Engineering MPS Operations Research and Information Engineering (ORIE) and the Department of Statistics and Data Science (CIS) David Ruppert is Andrew Schultz Jr. Professor of Engineering, School of Operations Research and Information Engineering, and Professor of Statistics and Data Science, Cornell University. He received a BA in Mathematics from Cornell University in 1970, an MA in Mathematics from the University of Vermont in 1973, and a PhD in Statistics and Probability from Michigan State University in 1977. He was Assistant and then Associate Professor of Statistics at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, from 1977 to 1987. He is a Fellow of the ASA and IMS and received the Wilcoxon Prize in 1986. Professor Ruppert was named "Highly cited" researcher by ISIHighlyCited.com and was ranked 21st in mathematics by journal citations. He has had 25 PhD students, many of them now leading researchers. Professor Ruppert has worked on stochastic approximation, transformations and weighting in regression, and smoothing. His current research focuses on astrostatistics, measurement error models, splines, semiparametric regression, and environmental statistics. He has published over 100 articles in refereed journals and has published five books, Transformation and Weighting in Regression, Measurement Error in Nonlinear Models (first and second editions), Semiparametric Regression, Statistics and Finance: An Introduction, and Statistics and Data Analysis for Financial Engineering. Publications Ruppert, David.2010.Statistics and Data Analysis for Financial Engineering.New York, NY:Springer. Carroll, R., David Ruppert, L. Stefanski, C Crainicanu.2006.Measurement Error in Nonlinear Models, A Modern Perspective, 2nd Edition.(2): 488.Chapman and Hall/CRC. Ruppert, David.2004.Statistics and Finance: An Introduction.New York, NY:Springer. Ruppert, David, D. Wand, R Carroll.2003.Semiparametric Regression.(12): 404.Cambridge University Press. Ruppert, David, C. Shoemaker, Y. Wang, Y. Li, N Bliznyuk.2012."Uncertainty Analysis for Computationally Expensive Models with Multiple Outputs."Journal of Agricultural, Biological, and Environmental Statistics17(4):623-640. Contact Info 607-255-0845 dr24@cornell.edu 1170 Comstock Hall Cornell.edu Profile David Ruppert's Homepage Courses Taught Introductory Statistics for Biology Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
