Alumni Profiles | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Statistics Graduate Society Recently Published Papers Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomeAlumni Alumni Profiles Tulips at the AD White House Find out where some of our Statistics and Data Science alumni have gone after graduation. Hear from these alumni, who talk about their time at Cornell and how their statistics education here prepared them for successful careers in industry. Jin Wook Kim, MPS '08 Jin Wook Kim earned his Master of Professional Studies in Applied Statistics from Cornell University in 2008. Today, hes an associate professor of accounting... more Irina Gaynanova (Stats PhD '15) The last time we checked in with Irina Gaynanova, she was two years away from completing her PhD in statistics here. Stephen Salerno (Biometry and Statistics, '16) Stephen Salerno's enthusiasm for biostatistics is unquestionable, and that passion grew out of his time at Cornell. Melissa Sharma '13 Sharma currently works as a senior consultant and actuary at Aon's Global Benefits practice. Lauren Altman '03 Lauren Altman graduated from Cornell University in 2003 and currently works for a market research company. Lulu Yan '08 After spending a decade as a data scientist in several industries, Yan is currently developing a healthcare startup in Silicon Valley. Ed George, Math '72, 2018 Cornell Distinguished Alumni It's the golden age of statistics, according to Dr. Ed George. Sharon Lawner Weinberg AB 68, PhD 71 Sharon Lawner Weinberg is a professor of applied statistics and psychology at New York University. Charles McCulloch, PhD '80, 2017 Distinguished Alumni For nearly 40 years now, McCulloch has witnessed the transformation in the statistics field. Eric Callahan DSS MPS Alumni "I selected the MPS program because I wanted program that would provide knowledge of practical applications of statistics." Bruce Turnbull, PhD '71, 2016 Distinguished Alumni For more than four decades, Bruce Turnbulls expertise in the field of statistics has helped usher in discoveries in health and medicine. Kyley Nemeckay DSS MPS Alumni Nemeckay is a statistical analyst at the Gallup Organization for both their consulting division and their World Poll. William Strawderman Cornell '65, 2015 Distinguished Alumni "Cornell has played a prominent role in my professional life as a Statistician," Strawderman said. Aditya Barua DSS MPS Alumni Upon graduation, Barua joined Google as a people analyst in Mountain View. Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
