Y. Samuel Wang | Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Us About Us Cornell's Department of Statistics and Data Scienceoffers four programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduatescan earn a BA in statistical science, social... Welcome to the Department of Statistics and Data Science History Facilities Recently Published Papers Statistics Graduate Society Academics Academics Undergraduate MPS PhD Courses PhD Minor in Data Science People People Faculty Field Faculty PhDs Emeritus Faculty Academic Staff MPS Students Staff News and Events News and Events Events News Resources Resources Professional Societies and Meetings Statistical Software of Interest Affiliated Groups Statistical Services Available at Cornell Career Services Cornell Population Center Alumni Alumni Cornell's Statistics and Data Sciencedegrees prepare students for a wide variety of careers, from academia to industry. See the After Graduation page for a general overview of... Alumni Profiles Search form Search You are hereHomePeopleFaculty Y. Samuel Wang Y. Samuel Wang Assistant Professor Department of Statistics and Data Science Y. Samuel (Sam) Wang joins the Department of Statistics and Data Science as an assistant professor in Fall 2021. Previously, he was a post-doc at the University of Chicagos Booth School of Business, and he completed his PhD in Statistics at the University of Washington. He also previously worked as a management consultant before his PhD studies. His primary research areas are graphical models and causal discovery. Contact Info ysw7@cornell.edu Comstock Hall, room 1186 Y. Samuel Wang's Website Home About Us Contact Us Careers Cornell University Department of Statistics and Data Science 1198 Comstock Hall,129 Garden Ave., Ithaca, NY 14853 Social Menu Twitter Facebook If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
