Uri Shumlak | Aeronautics and Astronautics Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Aeronautics and Astronautics Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us Quick Facts Our Values Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visiting A&A Buildings & Directions Employment Undergraduate Education & ABET Accreditation K-12 Outreach Contact Us People People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles Research Research Research Programs Centers and Laboratories Senior Capstone Projects Facilities Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel (KWT) C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News & Events News Events Calendar Faculty Honors Distinguished Speaker Series Department Graduation 2021 Highflight Admissions Admissions Why study A&A at the UW? Prospective undergraduate students Prospective graduate students Students Students COVID-19 Update for Students: Facilities Access Process Academic advising Degree requirements A&A Student Clubs Student Employment Student Resources Careers and internship Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map People People Uri Shumlak Professor Aeronautics & Astronautics Associate Department Chair for Research Aeronautics & Astronautics Professor Associate Chair for Academics shumlak@uw.edu (206) 616-1986 AER 432 Faculty Website Flow Z-Pinch Lab Computational Plasma Dynamics Lab Biography Professor Shumlak completed his undergraduate work at Texas A & M University and then obtained his PhD in Nuclear Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley. After finishing his graduate degree, he was a National Research Council postdoctoral fellow at the Air Force Phillips Laboratory in Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he wrote MACH3, a 3-D, time-dependent magnetofluid code for non-ideal plasmas in complex geometries. Professor Shumlak joined the University of Washington after leaving the Phillips Lab, though he still maintains close ties to the Air Force Research Lab and often performs research in support of their applications. He is actively involved in research and has been invited to speak at numerous international conferences. He has won numerous awards for his teaching, research, and mentoring. Professor Shumlak is a Fellow of the American Physical Society, an Associate Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He has also co-founded Zap Energy - a spin-out company from the UW to develop commercial fusion applications. Professor Shumlak's research areas are plasma physics, theoretical and computational plasma modeling, innovative magnetic plasma confinement for fusion energy, and electric propulsion. His work includes theoretical and experimental investigation of the stabilizing effect of sheared flows in magnetically confined plasmas. A sheared-flow-stabilized Z pinch would have immediate applications as a near-term fusion thruster for space exploration and a compact fusion energy source. The concept of flow stabilization would also have applications to other magnetic confinement devices and astrophysical plasmas. The flow Z-pinch concept has also been developed into an extreme ultraviolet (EUV) light source, which is applicable for next generation lithography. Professor Shumlak develops advanced plasma modeling algorithms that use an approximate-Riemann solver and high-order finite element methods for studying the time evolution of plasma dynamics. He also researches electric propulsion devices. He recently developed a novel method to produce high current ion sources based on using ultrasonic actuators to excite unstable waves in a liquid and applying an electric field to extract monodisperse, charged droplets. The source has applications to nanoparticle spraying, composite coating, and electric propulsion. Education PhD, University of California at Berkeley BS, Texas A&M University Select publications U. Shumlak. Z-Pinch Fusion. Journal of Applied Physics 127, 200901 (2020) [Featured Article, Invited Perspectives Article] E.L. Claveau, U. Shumlak, B.A. Nelson, E.G. Forbes, A.D. Stepanov, T.R. Weber, Y. Zhang, and H.S. McLean. Plasma Exhaust in a Sheared-Flow-Stabilized Z Pinch. Physics of Plasmas 27, 092510 (2020) Y. Zhang, U. Shumlak, B.A. Nelson, R.P. Golingo, T.R. Weber, A.D. Stepanov, E.L. Claveau, E.G. Forbes, Z.T. Draper, J.M. Mitrani, H.S. McLean, K.K. Tummel, D.P. Higginson, and C.M. Cooper. Sustained neutron production from a sheared-flow stabilized Z-pinch. Physical Review Letters 122, 135001 (2019) [Featured Article] K.K. Tummel, D.P. Higginson, A.J. Link, A.E.W. Schmidt, D.T. Offermann, D.R. Welch, R.E. Clark, U. Shumlak, B.A. Nelson, R.P. Golingo, and H.S. McLean. Kinetic simulations of sheared flow stabilization in high-temperature Z-pinch plasmas. Physics of Plasmas 26, 062506 (2019) [Invited Article] A. Ho, I.A.M. Datta, and U. Shumlak. Physics-Based-Adaptive Plasma Model for High-Fidelity Numerical Simulations. Frontiers in Physics 6, 105 (2018) G.V. Vogman, U. Shumlak, and P. Colella. Conservative fourth-order finite-volume Vlasov-Poisson solver for axisymmetric plasmas in cylindrical (r, vr, vtheta) phase space coordinates. Journal of Computational Physics 373, 877 (2018) U. Shumlak, B.A. Nelson, E.L. Claveau, E.G. Forbes, R.P. Golingo, M.C. Hughes, R.J. Oberto, M.P. Ross, and T.R. Weber. Increasing plasma parameters using sheared flow stabilization of a Z-pinch. Physics of Plasmas 24, 055702 (2017) [Invited Article] M.P. Ross and U. Shumlak. Digital holographic interferometry employing Fresnel transform reconstruction for the study of flow shear stabilized Z-pinch plasmas. Review of Scientific Instruments 87, 103502 (2016) E.M. Sousa and U. Shumlak. A blended continuous discontinuous finite element method for solving the multi-fluid plasma model. Journal of Computational Physics 326, 56 (2016) S.T. Miller and U. Shumlak. A multi-species 13-moment model for moderately collisional plasmas. Physics of Plasmas 23, 082303 (2016) E.M. Sousa, G. Lin, and U. Shumlak. Uncertainty quantification of the GEM challenge magnetic reconnection problem using the multilevel Monte Carlo method. International Journal for Uncertainty Quantification 5, 327 (2015) S.D. Knecht, R.P. Golingo, B.A. Nelson, and U. Shumlak. Calculation of the equilibrium evolution of the ZaP Flow Z-Pinch using a four-chord interferometer. IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science 43, 2469 (2015) G.V. Vogman, P. Colella, and U. Shumlak. Dory-Guest-Harris instability as a benchmark for continuum kinetic Vlasov-Poisson simulations of magnetized plasmas. Journal of Computational Physics 277, 101 (2014) S.D. Knecht, W. Lowrie, and U. Shumlak. Effects of a conducting wall on Z-pinch stability. IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science 42, 1531 (2014) E. Kansa, U. Shumlak, and S. Tsynkov. Discrete Calderon's Projections on Parallelepipeds and their Application to Computing Exterior Magnetic Fields for FRC Plasmas. Journal of Computational Physics 234, 172 (2013) U. Shumlak, J. Chadney, R.P. Golingo, D.J. Den Hartog, M.C. Hughes, S.D. Knecht, W. Lowrie, V.S. Lukin, B.A. Nelson, R.J. Oberto, J.L. Rohrbach, M.P. Ross, and G.V. Vogman. The Sheared-Flow Stabilized Z-Pinch. Fusion Science and Technology 61, 119 (2012) E.T. Meier and U. Shumlak. A general nonlinear fluid model for reacting plasma-neutral mixtures. Physics of Plasmas 19, 072508 (2012) E.T. Meier, A.H. Glasser, V.S. Lukin, and U. Shumlak. Modeling open boundaries in dissipative MHD simulation. Journal of Computational Physics 231, 2963 (2012) U. Shumlak, R. Lilly, N. Reddell, E. Sousa, and B. Srinivasan. Advanced physics calculations using a multi-fluid plasma model. Computer Physics Communications 182, 1767 (2011) B. Srinivasan and U. Shumlak. Analytical and computational study of the ideal full two-fluid plasma model and asymptotic approximations for Hall-MHD. Physics of Plasmas 18, 092113 (2011) W. Lowrie, V.S. Lukin, and U. Shumlak. A priori mesh quality metric error analysis applied to a high-order finite element method. Journal of Computational Physics 230, 5564 (2011) Honors & awards Erna and Jakob Michael Visiting Professorship, Weizmann Institute of Science, 2018 Faculty Scholar, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 2018 Graduate Educator of the Year (Aeronautics & Astronautics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA), 2016 Faculty Innovator Award (College of Engineering, University of Washington), 2011 Abe Zarem National Graduate Educator Award (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics), 2003 Professor of the Year (Aeronautics & Astronautics, University of Washington), 2002 Certificate of Recognition by the University of Washingtons Minority Science & Engineering ALVA Program (Alliances for Learning and Vision for Underrepresented Americans), 2000 Professor of the Year (Aeronautics & Astronautics, University of Washington), 1999 National Research Council Fellow, National Academy of Sciences, 1992 News A&A energy spinoff lands $27.5M A&A's Flow Z-Pinch Labspinoff ZaP Energy has landed $27.5M to build commercial reactor without magnets. Read Article Graebner wins first place at AIAA Undergraduate Michelle Graebner wins first for her work on the potential application of a Z pinch for space travel. Read Article A&A's fusion labs receive $3.5M The funding moves us closer to initial commercialization for cost-competitive fusion energy. Read Article A&A's Shumlak advises space video game Professor Uri Shumlak advises Kerbal Space Program 2, a video game grounded in orbital physics for interstellar travel. Read Article More News People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles AA research areas Plasma Science Research interests Advanced Space Propulsion Electric Thrusters Plasma Physics Computational Plasma and Fluid Dynamics Fusion Energy Courses taught AA 405 - Introduction to Aerospace Plasmas AA 419 - Introduction to Heat Transfer AA 529 - Space Propulsion AA 540 - Finite Element Methods AA 543 - Computational Fluid Dynamics AA 545 - Computational Methods for Plasmas AA 558 - Plasma Theory Ph.D. students Daniel Crews Iman Datta Andrew Ho Aria Johansen Sina Taheri Yu Takagaki Whitney Thomas Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
