Jim Hermanson | Aeronautics and Astronautics Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Aeronautics and Astronautics Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us Quick Facts Our Values Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visiting A&A Buildings & Directions Employment Undergraduate Education & ABET Accreditation K-12 Outreach Contact Us People People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles Research Research Research Programs Centers and Laboratories Senior Capstone Projects Facilities Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel (KWT) C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News & Events News Events Calendar Faculty Honors Distinguished Speaker Series Department Graduation 2021 Highflight Admissions Admissions Why study A&A at the UW? Prospective undergraduate students Prospective graduate students Students Students COVID-19 Update for Students: Facilities Access Process Academic advising Degree requirements A&A Student Clubs Student Employment Student Resources Careers and internship Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map People People Jim Hermanson Professor Aeronautics & Astronautics Adjunct Professor Mechanical Engineering jherm@aa.washington.edu (206) 616-2310 GUG 311F Combustion and Gas Dynamics Microgravity Science Biography Professor Hermanson received his BS in 1977 from the University of Washington Aeronautics and Astronautics Department. He worked at Boeing Aerospace Co. before attending the California Institute of Technology, where he received his MS in 1980 and PhD in 1985, both in Aeronautics. After graduating from Caltech he was a Post-doctoral Fellow at the Universitt Gttingen in Gttingen, Germany. Subsequently, Dr. Hermanson was on the staff of the UW Applied Physics Laboratory, after which he was a Research Scientist at United Technologies Research Center in East Hartford, CT. Prior to joining the UW A&A Department faculty in 2002, he was on the faculty of Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Worcester, MA, where he was appointed the 10th George I. Alden Chair in Engineering. Professor Hermanson is a Fellow of the ASME. He is also an Associate Fellow of the AIAA, and has served as Associate Editor of the AIAA Journal and on the AIAA Air Breathing Propulsion Technical Committee.Professor Hermanson's research interests are primarily in the general field of aerothermofluids, with emphasis on aerospace propulsion, combustion, gas dynamics, and multiphase flow. His first research contribution was an experimental study of the effects of heat release in turbulent, reacting mixing layers. Subsequently he investigated the injection of gaseous and supercritical fluid jets into supersonic streams. More recently, he and his coworkers studied experimentally and numerically the interaction of shock waves with turbulent jets and vortex rings, with emphasis on density-dependent mixing mechanisms in these flows. These problems, as well as other research Dr. Hermanson has conducted in fuel injection and mixing enhancement in supersonic flow, are relevant to supersonic combustion ramjets (scramjets). He has also experimentally investigated low-emissions approaches in lean premixed and partially premixed combustion systems.Professor Hermanson's current research activity and interests including unsteady turbulent combustion in normal- and microgravity, liquid fuel injection into supersonic flow, and film condensation under reduced gravity conditions. In addition to providing additional insight into the nature of turbulent flames, the combustion research may be useful in the development of compact, low-emissions combustors for terrestrial applications. The film condensation research has potential applications for terrestrial and space-based power systems as well as fluid handling in space. His research to date has been supported by ONR, NSF, NASA, and private industry. Education PhD, Aeronautics, California Institute of Technology MS, Aeronautics, California Institute of Technology BSAA, University of Washington News WA Space Grant moves to A&A The renowned NASA program's relocation to A&A will help strengthen hands-on student learning. Read Article Apollo Retrospective For Apollo 11's 50th anniversary, UW presents reflections by those who were inspired to work toward a future in space. Read Article A&A Team Wins SII The project will develop tools to provide and support learning with computation, electronics and mechanical systems. Read Article More News People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles AA research areas Fluids Research interests Combustion Gasdynamics Microgravity Science Heat Transfer Biofuels UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
