Owen Williams | Aeronautics and Astronautics Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Aeronautics and Astronautics Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us Quick Facts Our Values Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visiting A&A Buildings & Directions Employment Undergraduate Education & ABET Accreditation K-12 Outreach Contact Us People People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles Research Research Research Programs Centers and Laboratories Senior Capstone Projects Facilities Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel (KWT) C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News & Events News Events Calendar Faculty Honors Distinguished Speaker Series Department Graduation 2021 Highflight Admissions Admissions Why study A&A at the UW? Prospective undergraduate students Prospective graduate students Students Students COVID-19 Update for Students: Facilities Access Process Academic advising Degree requirements A&A Student Clubs Student Employment Student Resources Careers and internship Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map People People Owen Williams Research Assistant Professor Aeronautics & Astronautics ojhw@uw.edu (206) 543-6880 GUG 318C Williams Lab Biography Dr.Williams studies the effects of non-uniform fluid properties (such as density or viscosity) on turbulence and the resulting impact on real world vehicles and devices. These non-uniformities can be due to heat-transfer, compressibility or additives, for example, with applications to the development of high-speed vehicles, environmental or biomedical flows. Previous work has primarily focused on the examination of high-speed/hypersonic turbulent flows and the stratified atmosphere.OwenWilliams was born and educated in Toronto, Canada before moving to England to complete his Masters in Engineering from Imperial College, London. He obtained his PhD in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering from Princeton University, experimentally examining the effects of compressibility and stratification on wall-bounded turbulence. Before joining the University of Washingtonhe was a Research Associate at the University of Maryland, computationally examining turbulent scaling theories for hypersonic turbulent flows as well as shock boundary layer interactions. Education PhD, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University MEng, Aeronautical Engineering, Imperial College, London News Nailing the landings in space A&A is solving the challenges of how and where to land on the Moon, Mars and beyond. Read Article Marine energy research gets a boost Two recent funding announcements are good news for UWs marine renewable energy research. Read Article Marine energy? Apply aerospace. A&A's Owen Williams advises how to map the hydrodynamics of marine cross-flow turbines to advance cost-effective industry standards. Read Article Snortland wins NSF Fellowship Abigale Snortland, advised by A&A's Owen Williams, wins prestigious NSF Fellowship for marine energy research. Read Article More News People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles AA research areas Fluids Research interests Fluid Mechanics Turbulence Hypersonics Stratified Atmosphere UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
