Justin Little | Aeronautics and Astronautics Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Aeronautics and Astronautics Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us Quick Facts Our Values Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visiting A&A Buildings & Directions Employment Undergraduate Education & ABET Accreditation K-12 Outreach Contact Us People People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles Research Research Research Programs Centers and Laboratories Senior Capstone Projects Facilities Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel (KWT) C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News & Events News Events Calendar Faculty Honors Distinguished Speaker Series Department Graduation 2021 Highflight Admissions Admissions Why study A&A at the UW? Prospective undergraduate students Prospective graduate students Students Students COVID-19 Update for Students: Facilities Access Process Academic advising Degree requirements A&A Student Clubs Student Employment Student Resources Careers and internship Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map People People Justin Little Assistant Professor Aeronautics & Astronautics littlej7@uw.edu (206) 543-6679 GUG 318A Space Propulsion and Concepts Engineering Laboratory (SPACE Lab) Biography Justin Little joined the William E. Boeing Department of Aeronautics & Astronautics as an Assistant Professor in 2018. He previously served as a Research Scientist and Part-Time Lecturer in the department. During this time, he developed the first undergraduate laboratory class on electric propulsion. Prior to joining the UW, he was a Propulsion Research Scientist at MSNW LLC where he managed research programs in basic plasma science and electric propulsion. He received a PhD in Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering from Princeton University in 2014.Professor Littles research interests focus on understanding and developing novel electric propulsion concepts with applications in space exploration, telecommunications, and military and low-cost small satellites. Central to this focus are the low-temperature plasma physics that govern the performance of electric thrusters, particularly the role of collisions and plasma chemistry on the stability and transport properties of high-velocity plasma flows. His research methods emphasize a close relationship between reduced-order theoretical modeling and innovative experiment design to explore the fundamental scaling of dominant physics. The ultimate goal of his research is to improve the efficiency and capabilities of next-generation electric propulsion systems. Education Ph.D., Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University M.S., Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University News Data science for plasma physics A&A professor Justin Little won an award from the Air Force to apply data science methods to plasma physics. Read Article A&A welcomes Justin Little A&A welcomes Justin Little, whose research focuses on the intersection of electric propulsion and plasma physics. Read Article Young Visionaries Students Kelly and Shimazu won the Future of Electric Propulsion: A Young Visionary Paper Competition" at IEPC. Read Article More News People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles AA research areas Plasma Science Research interests Plasma Diagnostics Small Satellites Space Systems Plasma Physics Electric Propulsion UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
