Jay T. Groves | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Jay T. Groves Jay T. Groves Professor of Chemistry email: jtgroves@lbl.gov office: 408A Stanley Hall phone: (510) 666-3602 lab: 408A Stanley Hall lab phone: (510) 666-3602 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Physical chemistry in living systems Professor Groves is primarily interested in role of spatial organization in biochemical reaction systems. Living cells are not at all well-mixed reaction chambers. Rather, the molecular processes of life occur in elaborate spatial patterns. This interplay between spatial organization and the chemical reactions themselves in living systems adds a fascinating new dimension to chemistry that is rarely encountered outside of biology. Specific research in Professor Groves laboratory focuses on how spatial organization influences signal transduction processes at the cell membrane. The research methods combine techniques in optical microscopy and spectroscopy with materials fabrication methods and cell biology. This integrated approach enables the direct observation and physical manipulation of living reaction systems, down to the single molecule level. The conceptual approach is rooted in physics and physical chemistry, with the overarching goal of developing a quantitative and mechanistic understanding biochemical processes in living systems. Biography Jay T. Groves received his B.S. degree in Physics and Chemistry from Tufts University, and then went on to complete his Ph.D. in Biophysics with Professors Steven Boxer and Harden McConnell at Stanford University. He then spent a year as a visiting scholar at Academia Sinica in Taipei, Taiwan before becoming the Division Directors Fellow in the Physical Biosciences Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. In 2001 he joined the Chemistry Department at UC Berkeley as an Assistant Professor. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 2007 and Professor in 2010. In 2008 Professor Groves was appointed as a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator. He has received the Burroughs Wellcome Career Award in the Biomedical Sciences (2000), the Searle Scholars Award (2002), the MIT TR100 (2003), the Beckman Young Investigator Award (2004), and the NSF CAREER Award (2005). He has served as an Associate Editor of the Annual Reviews of Physical Chemistry since 2006. Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
