Kristie A. Boering | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Kristie A. Boering Kristie A. Boering Professor of Chemistry Professor of Earth and Planetary Science email: boering@berkeley.eduoffice: BG3 Giauquelab: CG2-CG4 Giauquephone: (510) 642-3472fax: (510) 643-2156lab phone: (510) 642-4499student/post doc office: DG24-DG26 Giauque Boering Research GroupRecent Publications Research Interests Physical and Analytical Chemistry; Atmospheric Chemistry and Transport -- Chemistry and mass transport in Earth's and extraterrestrial atmospheres are studied through kinetics and photochemistry experiments in the laboratory, numerical modeling, and observations from high-altitude aircraft and balloons. The coupling of atmospheric chemistry and climate on Earth and other planets on time scales ranging from months to billions of years is studied through observations from aircraft, balloon and ground-based platforms, 2D and 3D computer simulations, and laboratory experiments. Of particular interest are studies of photochemical isotope effects. These studies range from crossed molecular beam laboratory experiments to observations in the stratosphere. Photochemistry and reaction dynamics experiments are aimed at providing an understanding of unusual isotope effects on the molecular scale. Global-scale field measurements and computer simulations are aimed at using stable isotopes as tracers of atmospheric chemistry and transport in today's atmosphere and of the exchange of gases between the atmosphere and biosphere on annual to millennial to billion year time scales from atmospheric, ice core, and rock measurements, respectively. This insight is extended to the early Earth and other planets through laboratory investigations of photochemical haze production and other atmospheric phenomena that could serve as significant regulators of climate and habitability. Biography Kristie A. Boering attended the University of California, San Diego, where she received a Bachelor's degree in Chemistry with a Specialization in Earth Science, magna cum laude, in 1985. Under the supervision of John I. Brauman, she completed her PhD in physical chemistry at Stanford University in 1991 on experimental investigations of energy transfer in non-reactive collisions between polyatomic gas-phase anions and bath gases. In 1991, she went to Harvard University as a postdoctoral fellow in Steven C. Wofsy's group where she designed, built, and deployed highly-precise instruments to measure carbon dioxide mixing ratios in situ in the upper troposphere and stratosphere aboard NASA U-2 spyplanes and high altitude scientific balloons. She continued at Harvard as a research associate from 1994 to 1998, making field observations in New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Brazil, New Mexico, and Alaska. In 1998, she joined the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley, as Assistant Professor in the Departments of Chemistry and of Earth and Planetary Science and was promoted to Associate Professor (with tenure) in 2005. She is also a Faculty Scientist in the Earth Sciences Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and has been a Velux Visiting Professor in the Department of Chemistry at the University of Copenhagen (June 2005) and a Visiting Professor at the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Atmospheric Chemistry Division, in Mainz, Germany (2006-2007). She has received the Camille Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award (2005), the David and Lucile Packard Foundation Fellowship in Science and Engineering (2000), the UC Berkeley Department of Chemistry Teaching Award (2004), and the Hellman Foundation Junior Faculty Award for Excellence in Research (2000), and was a Science Scholar at the Bunting Institute of Radcliffe College, Harvard University (1995-1996), a U.S. Department of Energy Global Change Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellow at Harvard University (1992-1994), and a National Science Foundation Graduate Fellow at Stanford University (1987-1990). She is a member of the American Chemical Society, the American Geophysical Union, the UC Berkeley Atmospheric Science Center, and the UC Berkeley Center for Integrative Planetary Science, and was elected into the National Academy of Science in 2018. Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
