Anne M. Baranger | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Anne M. Baranger Anne M. Baranger Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Faculty Assistant for Teaching and LearningProfessor of Chemistry abaranger@berkeley.edu213 Lewis Hall(510) 642-0336Baranger Research Group Research Interests Chemical Education, Curricular Development, and Assessment.The chemistry department at the University of California, Berkeley serves a large population of undergraduate and graduate students and is a national and international leader in research. Therefore, the chemistry department is positioned to be a leader in the development of innovative programs in chemistry education that impact a large number of students. An overall goal our work is to increase the numbers of students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields and improve the scientific knowledge of both STEM students and students who do not ultimately choose to major in a STEM area. Our research focuses on developing evidence-based educational practices that teach rigorous chemical content and authentic scientific practices and make undergraduates education more accessible, more enjoyable, and more relatable. We are pursuing several projects: 1) Documenting and improving student learning in undergraduate research experiences, 2) Investigating and improving problem solving in organic courses, 3) Developing a near-peer teaching and mentoring program, and 4) Integrating green chemistry and authentic practice in laboratory instruction. Biography B.S. in Chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1988 Ph.D. in Chemistry from the University of California, Berkeley in 1993 Postdoctoral fellow at Yale University with Professor Alanna Schepartz from 1993-1996 Wesleyan University chemistry faculty in 1996 University of Illinois chemistry faculty in 2006 Joined the University of California, Berkeley, in 2011. Recipient of the Rudolph Anderson Postdoctoral Fellowship (1993-95) Recipient of the Donaghue Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship (1995) Recipient of the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship (2002-2004) Recipient of the ACS-CEI Award for Incorporation of Sustainability into Chemistry Education (2015) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
