Jonathan Rittle | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Jonathan Rittle Jonathan Rittle The Chevron Professor of ChemistryAssistant Professor of Chemistry rittle@berkeley.eduOffice: 813 Latimer HallLabs: 831, 817, 816, 807, 811 Latimer Hall Research Group Research Interests Inorganic Chemistry and Chemical Biology: Applying structure and spectroscopy to understand and augment the reactivity of metalloenzymes and transition metal clusters Humans and microorganisms alike utilize O2 to activate hydrocarbons in order to maintain proper cell function and detoxify foreign pollutants. Certain anaerobic bacteria and archaea transduce energy derived from arene- or halocarbon-reduction to support growth. Central to all of these processes are unique metalloenzymes that make use of polynuclear inorganic active sites composed of Earth-abundant transition metal ions. Research in the Rittle group focuses on understanding how these active sites functionalize such recalcitrant organic molecules and developing new strategies in the synthesis of reactive inorganic cluster compounds. Using this knowledge, our long-term goal is to develop powerful and selective synthetic catalysts that utilize multiple transition metal ions and to inspire new therapeutic strategies. Researchers of the lab utilize the tools of synthetic chemistry, structural biology, and various spectroscopic methods to elucidate the molecular- and electronic structures of reactive polynuclear fragments. For example, we are particularly interested in a class of diiron enzymes that selectively convert alkanes into either alcohols or alkenes/alkynes and how the protein structure tunes the chemical outcome of these transformations. To facilitate these investigations and to expand upon the diverse biocatalytic potential of these enzymes, we are developing biosynthetic and computational strategies to rationally improve the stability and solubility of these enzymes. Enzymes that employ redox-active metalloclusters have evolved beautiful but complex means of directing the flow of protons and electrons between their various substrates. The development of catalytically-competent cluster fragments in the absence of such elaborate protein scaffolds hence requires the design of modular ligand frameworks that can support the polynucleation of transition metals in multiple redox- and protonation states. With this in mind, we are developing molecular cluster compounds that function in the proton-coupled reduction of small molecules, such as CO2 or N2, and facilitate the manipulation of hydrogen atoms of organic molecules for selective bond (de)construction. Biography Born 1988 B. S. Pennsylvania State University, 2010 (Prof. Michael T. Green, Advisor) Ph. D. Chemistry, California Institute of Technology, 2016 (Prof. Jonas C. Peters, Advisor) NSF Predoctoral Fellow, 2011-2014 Caltech CEMI Predoctoral Fellow, 2014-2015 NIH Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California San Diego, 2016-2018 (Prof. F. Akif Tezcan, Advisor) Herbert Newby McCoy Award, 2016 Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
