Jeffrey R. Long | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Jeffrey R. Long Jeffrey R. Long Professor of Chemistry Professor of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering email: jrlong@berkeley.edu office: 211 Lewis Hall phone: (510) 642-0860 fax: (510) 642-8369 lab: 209 Lewis lab phone: (510) 643-3832 Research Group Recent Publications Research Expertise and Interest Inorganic and materials chemistry; synthesis of inorganic molecules and higher dimensional solids; precise tailoring of chemical and physical properties; gas storage, molecular separations, and catalysis in porous materials; magnetic and conductive materials. Description Research in the Long group focuses on the design and controlled synthesis of novel inorganic materials and molecules toward the fundamental understanding of new physical phenomena, with applications in gas storage, molecular separations, conductivity, catalysis, and magnetism. We employ a range of physical methods to analyze and characterize our materials comprehensively, including by gas adsorption analysis, X-ray and neutron diffraction, various spectroscopic techniques, and SQUID magnetometry. For more information about the Long group and a full list of publications, please visit the group website. MetalOrganic Frameworks A major focus of research in the Long group is the design and study of metalorganic frameworksporous, inorganic solids built of metal nodes connected by organic linkersthat are of interest for applications ranging from gas storage and molecular separations to catalysis and battery applications. Industrial separations account for a staggering 10-15% of the total global energy consumption, and developing more efficient separations processes is a therefore key strategy toward reducing worldwide energy consumption. Additionally, now more than ever global warming is necessitating a dramatic reduction in our global greenhouse emissions. One of the most promising short-term emissions mitigation strategiesand therefore a crucial separations needis the removal of CO2 directly from the flue gas streams of coal- and natural gas-fired power plants. Toward this end, we are studying a new class of diamine-appended frameworks developed in our group that exhibit high CO2 separation capacities in the presence of water, with minimal energy requirements arising from an unprecedented cooperative adsorption mechanism. Beyond terrestrial separations technologies, we are seeking to optimize this cooperative mechanism for applications as far reaching as air purification in submarines and spacecraft, and are applying fundamental insights from this work to the design of novel materials and mechanisms for the cooperative adsorption of other key, industrially-relevant gas molecules. We are also targeting metalorganic frameworks featuring polarizing open metal sites and shape-discriminating pore structures for the enhanced binding of H2 and CH4 near ambient temperatures and the separation of hydrocarbon isomers, respectively. The high-capacity storage of hydrogen and natural gas is especially relevant for automotive transportation, as these gases represent promising cleaner alternatives to liquid hydrocarbon fuels, and yet major advances in adsorbent technologies are necessary to overcome the costly limitations currently imposed by low-temperature and high-pressure on-board storage requirements. Seeking to capitalize on the separation capabilities of our best performing framework materials and the robust nature of polymer membranes, we are also designing metalorganic framework/polymer composites toward the development of novel membranes that exhibit high selectivities and permeabilities for applications ranging from the purification of natural gas to olefin/paraffin separations. Catalysis and Conductivity In addition to their function as molecular sieves, metalorganic frameworks are promising as robust, efficient catalysts with isolated and well-defined active sites. We are seeking to use coordinatively-unsaturated framework metal centers as catalytic sites and also installing these metal centers post-synthetically via chelating groups built into the framework ligands. In a separate endeavor, we are using this post-synthetic modification strategy to reduce or oxidize insulating frameworks and target conductive materials with high charge densities for applications ranging from battery components to chemical sensors. Along with their unique electronic properties, we are discovering unprecedented magnetic phenomena in some of these materials, and thus these efforts represent new directions in fundamental materials science. Molecular Magnetism Research in the Long group is also heavily focused on the design of molecules exhibiting a strong directional dependence to their magnetization (known as magnetic anisotropy) and magnetic phenomena such as magnetic hysteresis, a property previously thought to be relegated to bulk magnetic materials. These compoundscollectively known as single-molecule magnetswere discovered in the early 20th century and are of interest for applications in information storage, spin-based electronics, and quantum computing. Nearly thirty years after their discovery, however, the highest performing single-molecule magnets still only exhibit operating temperatures as high as ~60 K, with the vast majority only functioning at temperatures of a few Kas cold as deep space. At higher temperatures, thermal energy causes random fluctuations of the molecular magnetization that precludes the controlled manipulation of spin that is necessary for practical applications. The Long group is employing new design motifs and architectures precisely chosen to enhance operating temperatures, focusing primarily on the synthesis of multinuclear, radical-bridged molecules incorporating the late trivalent lanthanides and low-coordinate, mononuclear complexes of the transition metals. In particular, the trivalent lanthanides possess large magnetic moments and unquenched orbital angular momentum that can give rise to large magnetic anisotropy when paired with the appropriate ligand environment, and the group is a foremost leader in the design of high-performing, radical-bridged lanthanide single-molecule magnets. While the lanthanide ions are unsurpassed in their physical properties and the fundamental advantages they bring to the design of single-molecule magnets, the increasing costs associated with lanthanide extraction are also spurring interest in the development of molecules incorporating the less costly and abundant transition metals as magnetic centers. Transition metals led the charge with the development of single-molecule magnets, as magnetic centers in large, multinuclear clusters, and the group is now targeting mononuclear transition metal complexes of iron and cobalt that exhibit lanthanide-like electronic structure imparted by the appropriate weak, low-coordinate ligand field. The group is also pursuing new avenues in the design of multinuclear transition metal compounds with large spin and magnetic anisotropy, as well as mononuclear and multinuclear complexes of the 5f-elements. Biography Born 1969 B.A. Cornell University (1991) Ph.D. Harvard University (1995) Office of Naval Research Predoctoral Fellow (1991-1994) National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley (1996-1997) Research Corporation Research Innovation Award (1998) Hellman Family Faculty Award (1999) Camille Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award (2000) Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow (2001-2003) Wilson Prize (Harvard University, 2002) TR100 Award (2002) National Science Foundation Special Creativity Award (2003-2005 and 2009-2011) National Fresenius Award (2004) Miller Research Professor (2011) Honorary Professor, Jilin University (2013) Director, Center for Gas Separations (2014-present) Inorganic Chemistry Lectureship (2014) UC Berkeley Graduate Assembly Faculty Mentor Award (2014) France-Berkeley Fund Early-Career Research Award (2014) Bakar Fellow (2016-2020) Department of Energy Hydrogen and Fuel Cells Program R&D Award (2016) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
