Graham R. Fleming | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Graham R. Fleming Graham R. Fleming Professor of Chemistry email: fleming@cchem.berkeley.edualternate email: grfleming@lbl.govoffice: 221 Hildebrandphone: 510.643.2735fax: 510.642.6340lab: B77 Hildebrandlab phone: 510.643.7609 The Fleming GroupRecent Publications Research Interests Chemical and Biological Dynamics in the Condensed Phase Ultrafast Spectroscopy combined with theory and simulation is used to investigate many-body dynamics in liquids, solutions, glasses, and proteins, especially photosynthetic proteins Our group uses and develops advanced multidimensional ultrafast spectroscopic methods to study complex systems such as natural photosynthetic complexes, liquids, solution, and nanoscale systems such as single-walled carbon nanotubes. In natural photosynthetic systems we aim to define the design principles underlying their remarkable .quantum efficiencies, and to use these principles to aid in the design of robust and efficient artificial photosynthetic devices. Natural systems are also regulated in response to external conditions, such as light levels, and one of the key components of Photosystem II is regularly repaired. We plan to understand the control system at the molecular level by combining molecular genetics biochemistry, modeling, and ultrafast spectroscopy through collaboration with Professor K. K. Niyogi. We have recently shown, using two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy, that long lived electronic quantum coherence exists in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes. We are exploring the implications of quantum coherence for photosynthesis and for quantum information science. The electronic properties and excited state dynamics of nanoscale materials with significant quantum confinement effects yield a rich range of properties and potential applications. We aim to understand these properties with a particular current emphasis on single-walled carbon nanotubes via non-linear ultrafast spectroscopy and theoretical modeling. The modern theoretical description of photochemical processes, in particular what determines which products are formed, has at its core relaxation through conical intersections. Yet very little experimental information is available on such processes. Two dimensional electronic spectroscopy has the potential to provide a window into these processes and experiments to explore conical intersection dynamics are under development. Ultrafast multidimensional electronic spectroscopy is in its infancy with many potential ways to enhance resolution, sharpen the information content and extract specific dynamical pathways (e.g., those that involve only coherence). My group continues to develop new spectroscopic methods and the theoretical tools for their analysis. Biosketch Graham Fleming was appointed Vice Chancellor for Research at the University of California in 2009. Through high level positions at UC Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (where he was Deputy Laboratory Director from 2004 - 2006), he has been involved in the formation and operation of multiple major initiatives at Berkeley and LBNL. These include the $500M BP funded Energy Biosciences Institute, The California Institute for Quantitative Bioscience and the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing. Born in Barrow, England, in 1949, Fleming earned his Bachelor's of Science degree from the University of Bristol in 1971, and his Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of London in 1974. Following a post-doctoral fellowship at the University of Melbourne, Australia, he joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1979. There, he rose through the academic ranks to become the Arthur Holly Compton Distinguished Service Professor, a post he held for ten years, starting in 1987. At University of Chicago, he also served for three years as the Chair of the Chemistry Department. In that role, he led the creation of University of Chicagos first new research institute in more than 50 years, the Institute for Biophysical Dynamics. In 1997, he came to University of California Berkeley as a professor of chemistry, and he started and directed a new division of physical biosciences for Berkeley Lab. Throughout his administrative career, Fleming has remained a highly active and successful scientific researcher. He has authored or co-authored more than 444 publications, and is widely considered to be one of the world's foremost authorities on ultrafast processes. His ultimate goal is to develop artificial photosynthesis that would provide humanity with clean, efficient and sustainable energy. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society and a Fellow of the Royal Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Foreign Fellow of the Indian National Science Academy. Biography Born 1949 B.Sc.(Honours) Chemistry, Bristol University, UK, 1971 Ph.D. Physical Chemistry, University of London, UK, 1974 Research Fellow, California Institute of Technology, USA, 1974-75 University Research Fellow, University of Melbourne, Australia, 1975-76 Leverhulme Fellow, Royal Institute, UK, 1977-79 University of Chicago: Assistant Professor, 1979-83 Associate Professor, 1983-85 Professor, 1985-87 Arthur Holly Compton Distinquished Service Professor, 1987-97 Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1991 Fellow, Royal Society of London, 1994 Inter-American Photochemical Society Award, 1996 Centenary Lecture and Medal, Royal Society of Chemistry, 1996 Peter Debye Award in Physical Chemistry, American Chemical Society, 1998 Harrision Howe Award in Chemistry, American Chemical Society, 1999 Earle K. Plyler Prize for Molecular Spectroscopy, American Physical Society, 2002 Sierra Nevada Distinguished Chemist Award, 2003 The Porter Medal, European Photochemistry Association, 2004 Member, National Academy of Science 2007 Ahmed Zewail Award in Ultrafast Science and Technology, American Chemical Society, 2008 Vice Chancellor for Research, UC Berkeley, 2009 Professor of Chemistry & Director, Berkeley, Institute for Quantitative Bioscience Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
