Michael Marletta | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Michael Marletta Michael Marletta Professor of Chemistry Professor of Molecular and Cell Biology CH and Annie Li Chair in the Molecular Biology of Diseases marletta@berkeley.edu374B Stanley Hall510-642-8758 The Marletta Laboratory Research Interests Chemical Biology Questions under investigation in our laboratory lie at the interface of chemistry and biology with a particular emphasis on the study of protein function and enzyme reaction mechanisms and a focus on molecular answers to complex function in biology. NO Signaling and gas sensing The lab has had a long-standing interest in nitric oxide (NO) function in biology. We have brought chemical thinking to bear on how a reactive and toxic molecule like NO functions selectively in biological responses such as blood vessel dilation, central nervous system signaling and signaling in prokaryotes. We have uncovered many aspects of NO function including key elements of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase and the receptor for NO, the soluble isoform of guanylate cyclase (sGC). Our continued studies on NO signaling have led to a more general molecular understanding of gas sensing mechanisms in biology. Molecular questions on how the heme in sGC is able to capture NO in competition with the much more abundant oxygen led to the discovery of a novel family of prokaryotic and eukaryotic hemoprotein sensor proteins that have been termed H-NOX proteins (Heme-Nitric oxide OXygen). Some bacterial H-NOXs have ligand properties identical to sGC and some form stable complexes with oxygen, CO and NO. With John Kuriyan, H-NOX structures were solved that led to the key molecular determinants for ligand discrimination against oxygen. Since then we have solved many more structures, including recent electron microscopy views of nitric oxide synthase and sGC. The ability to link structure to ligand specificity has allowed us to discover novel sGCs regulated by oxygen, oxygen sensing in C. elegans, decipher an NO-dependent two-component signaling pathway in prokaryotes involved in biofilm formation, and other aspects of H-NOX function in biology. H-NOX signaling in pathogens such as Vibrio cholerae is a current focus of study. Polysaccharide Monooxygenases The lab has recently investigated cellulose degradation with the hope of getting past a long-standing bottleneck in producing biofuels from feedstock. We assumed organisms that efficiently degrade cellulose such as the fungus Neurospora, must have an enzyme repertoire beyond those that utilize hydrolytic general acid and base catalysis. Using transcriptomics, knockouts, and quantitative proteomics, we discovered a new class of copper-dependent hydroxylases, termed polysaccharide monooxygenases (PMOs), which play a significant role in cellulose degradation. Structure and function relationships are currently under study. In addition, PMOs have been found in fungal and bacterial pathogens as well as some thought to be involved in development. Study of these novel PMOs is underway. Biography Born 1951 A.B., S.U.N.Y. College at Fredonia (1973) Ph.D., University of California, San Francisco (1978) NIH Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Chemistry, M.I.T. (1978-80) Assistant/Associate Professor, M.I.T. (1980-87) Associate Professor, Univ. of Michigan (1987-91) John G. Searle Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Univ. of Michigan (1991-01) Professor, Univ. of Michigan (1991-01) Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical Institute (1997-01) Professor of Chemistry & Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, U.C. Berkeley (2001-11) President Elect, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA (2011-12) President and CEO, The Scripps Research Institute (2012-14) Cecil H. & Ida M. Green Chair in Chemistry, Scripps Research Institute (2011-15) Professor of Chemistry and Molecular and Cell Biology, U.C. Berkeley (2015-present) George H. Hitchings Award, Innovative Methods in Drug Discovery and Design (1991) Faculty recognition Award, The University of Michigan (1992) Outstanding Alumni Achievement Award, S.U.N.Y. College at Fredonia (1992) MacArthur Foundation Fellowship (1995) S.U.N.Y. Alumni Honor Roll (1996) Distinguished Faculty Lectureship Award in Biomedical Research (2000) State of Michigan Scientist of the Year (2000) Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award, University of Michigan (2000) Member, Institute of Medicine; Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences Member, National Academy of Sciences Repligen Award, Division of Biological Chemistry of American Chemical Society (2007) Gustavus John Esselen Award for Chemistry in the Public Interest (2007) Emil Thomas Kaiser Award of the Protein Society (2007) Murray Goodman Memorial Prize (2008) Fellow, Royal Society of Chemistry (2009) Fellow, National Academy of Inventors (2013) American Association of State Colleges and Universities AASCU Distinguished Alumnus (2014) Alfred Bader Award in Bioinorganic or Bioorganic Chemistry (2015) UCSF 150th Anniversary Alumni Excellence Award (2015) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
