Sung-Hou Kim | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Sung-Hou Kim Sung-Hou Kim Professor of the Graduate School 419 Latimer Hall, Department of Chemistry,University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA, 94720 sunghou@berkeley.edu or shkim@cchem.berkeley.edu(510) 708-2564 Current Research Interests (2020) A. Whole-proteome Tree of Life (ToL) An Organism Tree of Life (ToL) can be considered as a metaphorical and conceptual tree to capture a simplified narrative of the complex and unpredictable evolutionary courses of all living organisms. Currently, the most common approach has been to construct a gene ToL, as a surrogate for the organism ToL, by selecting a group of highly alignable regions of each of the select genes/proteins representing each organism. Such selected regions, however, account for a small fraction of all genes/proteins and an even smaller fraction of the whole genome of an organism. During the last decades, whole-genome sequences of many extant organisms have become available, providing an opportunity to construct a whole-genome or whole-proteome ToL using Information Theory without sequence alignment. Our group developed the Feature Frequency Profile (FFP) method, which is a variation of Word Frequency Profile method, commonly used to compare two books using Natural Language Analysis algorithms based on Information Theory. Using the FFP method we have been able to construct a Whole-proteome ToL for over 4,000 extant organisms for which whole genome sequences are available in the public genome database. The most surprising and unexpected feature of our ToL was that the founders of all 5 Kingdoms of all living organisms (Bacteria, Archaea, Fungi, Plants, and Animals) emerged in a deep Burst near the root of the ToL, a feature not observed in all earlier ToLs. Encouraged by this observation, we have started to construct whole genome/proteome ToL in separate Phylum, Class, and Order levels. B. Whole genome variation of Human species. Most regions of genomes of normal human cells have been found to have the same sequences among individuals, but a small fraction, spread throughout the genome, have variations within a population. Of these, the single nucleotide variations (SNVs) account for the largest number of variations and have been identified in over 80 million genomic positions out of 3 billion positions (loci) in a whole haploid genome. It has been widely accepted that the analysis of SNVs may be able to allow one to predict the genomic component of the disease susceptibility of individuals to complex diseases such as cancers, neurological diseases, autoimmune diseases and other traits. So far, the results from the current analysis methods (e.g. Genome-wide Association Studies method) and interpretation of the results have yielded information of limited predictive value of practical utility for making health-related decisions at the individual or population level without information of family histories. Prevention and early diagnosis of cancer are the most effective ways of avoiding psychological, physical, and financial suffering. We developed a machine-learning method for statistically predicting individuals inherited susceptibility (and environmental/lifestyle factors, by inference) for acquiring the most likely type among a panel of 20 major common cancer types plus one healthy type. The results show that, depending on the type, about 33 to 88% of a cancer cohort has acquired its cancer type primarily due to inherited genomic susceptibility factors, and the rest primarily due to environmental/lifestyle factors. These cohort genomic susceptibilities with associated probabilities may provide practical information for health professionals and health policy makers related to prevention and/or early intervention of cancer. We are in the process of extending this approach to predict individual susceptibility. C. Genomic studies of Ethnic populations. An ethnic population has different meanings to different people, but, generally, is a group of people who have a perceived notion that its members share a set of unique inherited (genomic) and acquired (non-genomic) traits, such as ancestry, social and cultural norms, religion/belief, language and life style. Thus, ethnic group identity has a strong emotional component that divides the people into opposing categories of us and them, one of the primary causes for human conflict and suffering. Recent availability of the genomic sequences of a large number of ethnic populations throughout the world (over 160 ethnic groups) provides an opportunity to estimate quantitatively the fraction of the whole genome that may account for the inherited genomic component for ethnicity and to find any relationship between ethnic grouping and genomic grouping. We have developed a method to compare whole-genome variations (Single Nucleotide Variations (SNVs)) between individuals using a text analysis method based on Information Theory to address these questions. Biography Born 1937 B.S. (1960) Seoul National University, South Korea M.S. (1962) Seoul National University, South Korea Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry (X-ray Crystallography), University of Pittsburgh (1966) Research Associate Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.) (1966-70) Senior Research Scientist M.I.T. (1970-72) Assistant and Associate Professor, Biochemistry, Duke University (1972-78) Professor and Professor of the Graduate School, Department of Chemistry, UC Berkeley (1978- ) Faculty Scientist, Physical Biosciences Division; Molecular Biophysics & Integrated Bioimaging Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley (1979- ) Fulbright Travel Fellow (1962) N.I.H. Research Career Development Award (1976-79) Miller Research Professorship (UC Berkeley, 1983) Guggenheim Fellow (1985) E.O. Lawrence Award (US Department of Energy, 1987) Princess Takamatsu Award (Tokyo, Japan, 1989) The Ho-Am Prize ( Samsung Foundation, South Korea, 1994) Fellow, American Academy of Arts & Sciences (1994) Member, U.S. National Academy of Sciences (1994) Korean Academy of Science and Technology Prize in Science (South Korea, 2000) Legacy Laureate Award, University of Pittsburgh (2005) The Pride of Seoul National Univ. Alumni Award (Seoul, South Korea, 2006) Department of Chemistry Alumni Award, Univ. of Pittsburgh (2008) Alexander Rich Medal, M.I.T. (2014) Fellow, The American Association for the Advancement of Science (2018) Member of American Society of Biological Chemists, American Crystallography Association, American Chemical Society, and Biophysical Society More Information The following files are available for download in PDF format: Curriculum Vitae Publication List Evolution of Research Interests Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
