Felix R. Fischer | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Felix R. Fischer Felix R. Fischer Associate Professor of Chemistry ffischer@berkeley.eduoffice: 699 Tan Halloffice phone: (510) 643-7205office fax: (510) 642-6911lab: 676, 680, 684 Tan Halllab phone: (510) 642-8252student/post doc office: 676A/B, 680A, 684A/B Tan Hall Fischer LaboratoryRecent Publications Research Interests Organic and Inorganic Materials Chemistry, Supramolecular Chemistry, Polymer Chemistry, Molecular Electronics Our group is interested in the development of atomically unambiguously defined nanomaterials and their incorporation into functional electronic devices such as organic field-effect transistors, photovoltaic cells, and integrated molecular circuits. Discotic Materials The performance of state-of-the-art molecular electronic devices based on organic materials depends to a significant extent on the precise control of the structure over multiple orders of magnitude. While the individual bonds between atoms largely dictate the arrangement on a molecular level, the intermolecular order in close proximity to a metal-organic interphase remains unpredictable. One of the principal challenges of our research lies in the development of new synthetic self-assembly strategies that allow us to translate the well-defined structural control of single molecules (nm scale) into large homogeneous domains (mm scale). In an effort to accomplish this goal we employ tools derived both from supramolecular chemistry, as well as lessons learned from the study of ligand-protein interactions. Graphene Nanoribbons The potential of single layer graphene based electronic devices has been recognized mostly due to its exceptionally high charge carrier mobility. While the extended two-dimensional hexagonal carbon lattice is a semimetal or a zero-gap semiconductor, structural confinement to an essentially one-dimensional graphene ribbon opens a band-gap large enough to expose room temperature semiconductor properties. The commercial application of single layer graphene nanoribbons in molecular electronics is largely limited by the low yield and the inherent inhomogeneity of the materials produced by synthetic methods based on exfoliation of highly pyrolitic graphite, unzipping of carbon nanotubes, or epitaxial growth on catalytic surfaces. The primary goal of our research is the development of a synthetic approach towards atomically defined graphene nanoribbons. Supramolecular Catalysts The functionalization of readily available prochiral olefins has been established as a robust and highly versatile method for the introduction of chirality in organic synthesis. Whereas modern catalysts can accurately direct the stereoselctive outcome of these reactions, the regioselectivity is largely subjected to the substrate reactivity, and its control remains the dominion of a small number of synthetically useful enzymes, which are mostly capable of catalyzing only the corresponding type of chemical reaction. The long-term goal of this project is the development of a regio- and stereoselective catalyst system based on a supramolecular receptor capable of activating selected double bonds in polyenes. The proposed research aims at the development of a catalyst system combining the regio- and stereoselectivity normally found in an enzyme-mediated reaction with the broad substrate scope and reaction types associated with modern catalysts. Biography Associate Professor, born 1980 Diplom, Chemistry, Ruperto-Carola University, Heidelberg (2004) Ph.D., Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich (2008) Leopoldina Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University, New York (2008-2011) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
