Matthew B. Francis | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Matthew B. Francis Matthew B. Francis Chair, Department of ChemistryProfessor of Chemistry mbfrancis@berkeley.edu724 Latimer(510) 643-9915 Francis Research GroupRecent Publications Research Interests Organic, Bioorganic, and Materials Chemistry Self-assembling networks of inorganic nanocrystals from modified cytoskeletal proteins, functionalized viral capsids for drug delivery and 3-D nanomaterial construction, and new synthetic methods for site-specific protein modification Research in the Francis group is focused on the development of new synthetic methods for the construction of nanoscale materials. The central strategy involves the attachment of new functional components to specific locations on structural proteins, and the subsequent self-assembly of these conjugates into new types of materials with useful electronic and biological functions. Controlled Growth of Nanocrystalline Arrays Using Cytoskeletal Proteins Modern synthetic methods for the preparation of inorganic nanocrystals have yielded promising new components for optical and electronic device construction. However, the organization of these materials into functional assemblies remains extremely difficult, in part because the small size of nanocrystals (2-10 nm) is well below the spatial resolution of most lithographic techniques. An alternative approach could be provided by attaching these nanocrystals to specific sites on the surfaces of fiber-forming cytoskeletal proteins, such as actin. By controlling the polymerization of the actin conjugates with additional proteins and small molecule natural products, specified locations could be connected with wire-like arrays of functional materials. Once constructed, the arrays could be converted into conductive linkages, thus providing an entirely new method for nanoscale circuit construction. Modified Viral Capsids for the Assembly of Core/Shell Materials A second research area involves the synthesis of three-dimensional nanostructures from the self-assembling proteins that form the outer coats of viruses. For example, by selectively modifying the top and bottom faces of the satellite panicum mosaic virus capsid protein, new types of core/shell materials could be obtained after assembly. These structures could be developed into particles capable of targeting desired tissue types and releasing their cargo of drug molecules. Functionalized viral capsids could also provide new tools for the investigation of multivalent binding interactions that occur in biological systems. New Methods for Site-Selective Protein Modification A central theme in this research program is the modification of structural proteins in specific locations in order to achieve homogeneous and predictable assembly. Site-directed mutagenesis provides a powerful set of tools for this purpose, and will be used extensively. However, there are limitations associated with this technique, and therefore the development of new chemical approaches for protein modification will be pursued as well. This research will take advantage of the rapidly expanding set of organic reactions that can proceed in aqueous solution, and will utilize asymmetric ligands and catalysts to enhance the selectivity of protein modifications. Combinatorial reaction libraries will play an important role in this research area. Biography Professor. Born 1971 B.S. in Chemistry from Miami University, Oxford, OH, 1994 Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry, Harvard University (Prof. Eric N. Jacobsen, advisor), 1999 Postdoctoral Fellow, Miller Institute for Basic Research in Science, Univ. of California, Berkeley (Prof. Jean M. J. Frchet, advisor), 1999-2001 Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation New Faculty Award, 2001 Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
