Judith P. Klinman | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Judith P. Klinman Judith P. Klinman Professor of the Graduate School Chancellor's Professor email: klinman@berkeley.edu office: 608C Stanley Hall phone: 510.642.2668 fax: 510.643.6232 lab: 631 Stanley Hall lab phone: 510.642.7450 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Biochemistry Biophysical, Bioorganic and Bioinorganic Chemistry New fundamental aspects of enzyme catalysis are under investigation. Research in Professor Klinman's laboratory is concerned with the nature of enzyme catalysis. Despite tremendous progress over the last decades, much remains to be learned and we are far from being able to design proteins from first principles. At the current time there is a paucity of information concerning reaction barrier shapes at enzyme active sites, as well as the contribution of protein dynamics to bond cleavage processes. An extremely valuable approach to these questions involves the detection and quantitation of hydrogen tunneling in enzymatic reactions. The Klinman group has amassed evidence that room temperature nuclear tunneling occurs among a long list of enzymatic reactions. A quantitative treatment of the data is providing insight into the role of protein/heavy atom motions in promoting C-H activation via a tunneling process. Additionally, the use of site specific mutagenesis and H/D exchange, together with homologous proteins from different temperature niches, is making it possible to address how discrete substrate-protein binding interactions and protein dynamics influence the efficiency of the tunneling process. Until fairly recently, it was thought that most enzymatic cofactors were small molecular weight compounds that bound reversibly to their cognate proteins. In recent years, a growing family of proteins has been described that contain their cofactor within the protein polypeptide chain. A new class of such proteins has emerged from the Klinman lab, referred to as quino-enzymes. Two distinct cofactor species have been discovered in eukaryotes: 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenethylamine quinone (TPQ) derived from a single tyrosine side chain and seen in the ubiquitous copper amine oxidases; and lysine tyrosyl quinone (LTQ) derived from the cross-linking of a lysine and oxidized tyrosine within the active site of the lysyl oxidases. In the case of TPQ it has been established that a single protein fold catalyzes both cofactor biogenesis and subsequent enzyme turnover. These proteins are, thus, referred to as dual function proteins, raising the challenge of how a single protein fold can catalyze two seemingly disparate reactions. In depth studies with these quino-enzymes, as well as the peptide-derived bacterial cofactor, pyrroloquinoline quinone, are in progress. Studies have also been initiated to probe the physiological role of one class of copper amine oxidases that resides on cell surfaces, generating hydrogen peroxide as a likely cell-signaling agent. Life as aerobes creates unique challenges. Specifically, how do proteins catalyze the activation of molecular oxygen while avoiding the generation of radical intermediates with sufficient stability to carry out oxidative damage to cellular components. We have initiated a systematic approach to this question investigating a wide range of proteins that function with organic cofactors alone, metals alone or a combination of both organic cofactors and metal centers. The methodology being used combines site-specific mutagenesis, steady state and rapid kinetics, spectroscopic probes for intermediates and the measurement of O-18 isotope effects. We have begun to evolve a set of fundamental principles that extends across enzyme classes. Such studies may also allow protein redesign to generate catalysts with altered dioxygen reactivity. Biography Born 1941 A.B. University of Pennsylvania (1962) Ph.D. Physical-Organic Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania (1966) Weizmann Institute of Science Postdoctoral Fellow (1967) Research Scientist at the Institute for Cancer Research, Philadelphia (1968-78) Member ASBMB, ACS, AAAS, NAS, APS Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
