Angelica Stacy | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Angelica Stacy Angelica Stacy Professor Emerita email: astacy@berkeley.edu office: 538 Latimer phone: (510) 642-1935 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Solid State, Physical and Inorganic Chemistry As chemists interested in solids, we synthesize materials with interesting physical properties that can be applied to emerging technologies and elucidate their behavior. Interest in the Stacy Lab is in solid-state inorganic chemistry, with particular emphasis on the synthesis and characterization of new solid state materials with novel electronic and magnetic properties. We are able to make new materials, or grow crystals of materials that have previously only been made at high temperatures, by choosing unusual reaction conditions. Our goal is to exploit changes in chemical composition or size in order to tailor structural parameters and physical properties. A main theme in the Stacy Lab is the development of new synthetic methodologies, including the use of molten salts for the synthesis of oxide superconductors, electrodeposition (in aqueous solutions and molten salts) for the synthesis of thermoelectric materials, and the use of plasma-solid reactions for the synthesis of fluorides with interesting catalytic properties. We are also using our plasma chamber for the development of chemistries for emission reduction of perfluorocarbon compounds produced by plasma processing of semiconductor devices. A current interest in our lab is exploring two-dimensional and one-dimensional quantum confined thermoelectric materials. These materials are made by electrodeposition through a porous membrane to produce wires and by pulsed laser deposition to produce multilayered thin films. In each of these cases we are learning about an unusual or new synthetic approach in order to target a material in which we are interested. It is important to us that we understand the behavior of our materials, as well as the conditions of our syntheses so we can more carefully control which products we get. For the oxides, we have been exploring the use of Raman spectroscopy to characterize the chemistry of the molten alkali metal hydroxides that we use as a solvent system. A new project in our lab has focused on the transport properties of mixed metal chalcoplyrites (such as CuInSe2). We are systematically doping with Zn to see which affects the transport properties more, the dopant or the defects. We are using diffraction and electron microscopy to characterize this system. As chemists interested in solids, an important contribution is to discover advanced materials that can be applied to emerging technologies. In addition, we have the fun of deciphering new and unusual behavior of materials. Biography Born 1955 B.A. LaSalle College (1977) Ph.D. Cornell University (1981) Postdoctoral Fellow, Northwestern University (1981-1983) DuPont Teaching Award, Department of Chemistry, Cornell University (1978) Cornell University College of Arts and Sciences Clark Teaching Award (1979) Rohm and Haas Summer Faculty Fellowship, 1984 National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator (1984-1989) Prytanean Society Faculty Enrichment Award, 1986 Exxon Fellowship for Solid State Chemistry, 1987 Sloan Foundation Fellowship (1988-1990) Camille and Henry Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award (1988) Distinguished Teaching Award, University of California (1991), Faculty Award for Women Scientists and Engineers, National Science Foundation (1991) Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Technology Transfer Certification of Merit (1991) President's Chair for Teaching, University of California (1993-1996) Francis P. Garvan-John M. Olin Medal, American Chemical Society (1994), Catalyst Award, Chemical Manufacturers Association (1995) The Donald Sterling Noyce Prize for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching (1996) Iota Sigma Pi Award for Professional Excellence (1996) James Flack Norris Award for Outstanding Achievement in Teaching Chemistry (1998) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
