Martin P. Head-Gordon | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Martin P. Head-Gordon Martin P. Head-Gordon The Kenneth S. Pitzer Distinguished Professor of Chemistry email: m_headgordon@berkeley.edu office: 217 Gilman phone: 510.642.5957 fax: 510.643.1255 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Theoretical Chemistry Attacking the frontiers of electronic structure calculations by the development of novel theories and algorithms. Professor Head-Gordon's group performs research on the development and application of electronic structure theories, to permit the treatment of problems that are currently beyond the reach of standard methods.The electronic structure problem is to calculate the properties of a molecule from first principles quantum mechanics, with the objective of obtaining information on structure and reactivity. Since this information is crucial to understanding and controlling the chemistry of molecules, applications of electronic structure theory play an important and growing role in many areas of chemistry. At the same time, there are fundamental problems with the current standard electronic structure methods. Standard theories are not capable of correctly breaking chemical bonds or describing dark excited states that control photochemistry, without resorting to specialist multireference methods. Standard electronic structure methods have computational costs that rise as unphysically steeppowers of the number of atoms in the molecule. This makes application to large molecules and molecular assemblies unfeasible at present, particularly with the most accurate methods. Additionally there is a need to bridge the large gulf that exists betweeen the methods by which electronic structure calculations are performed and the way in which the physical insight is extracted from the calculations. Professor Head-Gordon and his group are performing research that aims to address issues such as those identified above, to build the next generation of electronic structure theories. This research combines fundamental quantum mechanics and many-body theory with aspects of applied mathematics and numerical analysis, as well as high performance computing. Exciting progress has been made over the last few years in linear scaling methods for density functional theory, new approaches to describing the correlations between electrons in spatially localized terms, and new model chemistries forground and excited states. Additionally, challenging chemical applications are performed in diverse areas of chemistry to exploit new theoretical developments, and to further probe the limitations of standard methods. These studies are often in collaboration with experimental studies, and recent examples have been in the areas of combustion and interstellar chemistry. Biography Born 1962 B. Sc. (1983) M. Sc. (1985) Monash University Ph. D. Carnegie-Mellon University 1989) Postdoctoral Fellow, Bell Laboratories (1989-1992) NSF Young Investigator (1993-8) Joel H. Hildebrand Professor (1994-1996) Alfred P. Sloan Fellow (1995-1997) David and Lucile Packard Fellow (1995-2000) Medal of the International Academy of Quantum Molecular Sciences (1998) Faculty Chemist, Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Faculty & Research Chemistry FacultyFaculty Emeriti Lecturers Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
