T. Don Tilley | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty T. Don Tilley T. Don Tilley PMP Tech Chancellors Chair in ChemistryProfessor of Chemistry email: tdtilley@berkeley.edu office: 591 Tan phone:(510) 642-8939 fax:(510) 642-8940 lab: Tan 571, 577, 581, 583; Latimer 519; Lewis 326 lab phone: (510) 643-9906, 643-3173, 643-7970 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Organometallic, Polymer and Materials Chemistry; Catalysis Synthetic, structural, and reactivity studies on transition metal compounds are pursued in the search for new chemical transformations, polymers with novel properties, catalysts, and advanced solid state materials. Research projects in Professor Tilley's group involve exploratory synthetic, structural, and reactivity studies on novel inorganic and organometallic systems. Reactivity studies focus on compounds that exhibit unusual electronic and/or coordination environments for the metal center, and discovery of new chemical transformations. Reactivity studies are guided by mechanistic investigations that shed light on how reactions proceed. Metal-mediated routes to new polymers are being explored, and molecular, chemical approaches to the designed construction of advanced solid state materials and heterogeneous catalysts are being developed. Organometallic Chemistry and Homogeneous Catalysis Research in organometallic chemistry involves the synthesis of transition metal complexes that exhibit new chemical properties, often via the design and introduction of new ancillary ligands. Work with early transition metals and the f metals target coordinatively unsaturated complexes that activate small molecules via sigma-bond metathesis. In previous work with Zr, Hf, Sc, and Lu, catalytic transformations of Si-H and C-H bonds have been developed. In late transition metal systems, chelating, nitrogen-donor ligands are being explored in attempts to generate reactive metal centers. In particular, research with Rh, Ir, and Pt has led to discovery of new reactions for the hydroarylation and hydroamination of olefins. A further interest concerns the activation of bonds via 1,2-migrations between a metal and a donor atom. This reaction type, which produces a metal-ligand multiple bond, has been used to obtain silylene complexes of Pt, Ir, Ru, Os, and W. These investigations have led to discovery of a new mechanism for the hydrosilylation of olefins, mediated by a metal silylene complex. Organic Materials This program targets new electronic materials, and supramolecular structures constructed from labile C-C bonds. Polymer syntheses involve metal-mediated polymerizations of alkene, alkyne, silane, and/or stannane monomers. An emphasis is placed on development of electron-delocalized polymers, which show promise as advanced materials that function as conductors, semiconductors, photoconductors and light-emitting materials. Metal-catalyzed dehydropolymerizations have been used to obtain the first high molecular weight polystannanes. These low band-gap polymers are semiconducting when doped, and display interesting temperature-dependent optical properties. An approach to new pi-conjugated structures is based on the zirconocene-coupling of diynes to polymers with zirconacyclopentadiene units in the main chain. The metallacyclic monomer units provide versatile chemical pathways for placement of various conjugated groups (dienes, aromatic heterocycles) into a delocalized chain. Related methods are being used to obtain oligomeric and small-molecule organic materials that possess high electron affinities, n-type semiconducting properties, and high electron mobilities. These molecules are being constructed by zirconocene-coupling methods, and by nucleophilic aromatic substitution reactions of fluorinated aromatic systems. A related topic is based on the discovery that zirconocene-coupling methods are useful in high-yield syntheses of macrocycles and cages, from readily available diynes. This method, which relies on the reversibility of C-C bond formation in the couplings, is being used to produce assemblies of controlled size, shape, and functionality. Applications in host-guest chemistry, catalysis, anion binding, and supramolecular chemistry are being developed. Materials Chemistry and Heterogeneous Catalysis A project on the molecular design and synthesis of solid-state materials is based on development of chemical routes to complex, 3-dimensional networks via molecular-level control. Primary targets are multi-component, oxygen-containing materials which are fabricated from tailored, oxygen-rich precursor molecules. This approach has been used to obtain new catalysts for selective hydrocarbon oxidations. Related molecular precursors are used to introduce isolated catalytic sites onto the surface of an oxide support. Advantages to the latter method include the increased potential for molecular-level control over structure, the generation of site-isolated catalytic centers, and the availability of good spectroscopic models for the catalytic site. Further efforts employ chemical modifications of the catalyst support surface to enhance binding and activation of substrates, and release of products. New efforts in the Tilley group are coordinated with the Solar Energy Research Center at LBNL (Helios), for development of efficient routes to renewable chemical fuels from solar energy. Primary objectives include identification of inexpensive, efficient catalysts that drive energetically uphill reactions in the conversion of stable feedstocks (e.g., water and CO2) to potential fuels (e.g., hydrogen and hydrocarbons). Current research is directed toward identification of soluble and surface-bound catalysts for water oxidation and proton reduction. Biography Born 1954 B.S. University of Texas (1977) Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley (1982) NSF Exchange Postdoctoral Associate, California Institute of Technology and ETH, Zrich, Switzerland (1981-1983) Faculty of Chemistry, University of California, San Diego (1983-1994) Professor, University of California, Berkeley, and Faculty Senior Scientist, Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (1994-present) Alfred P. Sloan Fellow (1988-90) Union Carbide Innovation Recognition Awards (1991, 1992) Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Fellow (1993) Visiting Professor, ETH, Zrich, Switzerland (1998) Alexander von Humboldt Senior Scientist (1998) Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (1998) Visiting Professor, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France (1999-2000) ACS Award in Organometallic Chemistry (2002) Chair of the ACS Division of Inorganic Chemistry (2003) Wacker Silicon Award (2003) Miller Research Professor (2004-05) Centenary Lectureship and Medal, Royal Society of Chemistry (2007) ACS Frederic Stanley Kipping Award in Silicon Chemistry (2008) Visiting Professor, University of Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France (2010) Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences (2013) Edward Mack Jr. Memorial Award, Ohio State (2013) ACS Award for Distinguished Service in the Advancement of Inorganic Chemistry (2014) ACS Fellow (2014) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
