John Kuriyan | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty John Kuriyan John Kuriyan Professor of Chemistry email: kuriyan@berkeley.edu office: 508 B Stanley Hall phone: 510.643.0137, 510.643.1710 (Admin) fax: 510.643.2352 lab: 542, 527 Stanley Hall lab phone: 510.643.0166, 510.643.0164 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Structural Biology of Cellular Signal Transduction and DNA Replication John Kuriyans lab studies the mechanisms, evolution, and structures of the molecular switches that carry out cellular signal transduction. They use biochemical, biophysical, structural and cell biological analyses to elucidate mechanisms, and also study how these mechanisms change with evolution. A major focus of the lab is to understand the allosteric communication that enables proteins to be exquisitely responsive to input signals. We use high-throughput mutational analysis to determine the sensitivity of these mechanisms to perturbations, in order to determine the molecular principles governing regulation and specificity. Breakthroughs from the lab have included the determination of the switching mechanisms of several tyrosine kinases, including that of the Src family of tyrosine kinases, the immune-cell kinases ZAP-70 and Btk, and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). We have also advanced the fundamental understanding of the regulation of several other signaling proteins, including the Ras activator SOS, and CaMKII, an oligomeric kinase that plays a central role in neuronal signaling. Our insights have helped understand how the misregulation of these enzymes is often coupled to cancer and immune diseases, and have implications for the development of kinase-targeted drugs to treat these diseases. The lab has also made fundamental discoveries related to the structural basis for high-speed DNA replication, by determining the structures of the clamp-loader and sliding clamp complexes of DNA polymerases. We are currently applying high-throughput mutagenesis methods to these systems to understand the functioning of the AAA+ ATPases that form the core of the clamp-loader complexes. Biography Dr. Kuriyan is also Chancellor's Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. He received a B.S. degree in chemistry from Juniata College, Pennsylvania, and a Ph.D. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he worked with Gregory Petsko and Martin Karplus (Harvard University) on the dynamics of proteins. He continued with Martin Karplus and Greg Petsko for a year and then moved to Rockefeller as Assistant Professor and University Fellow. Dr. Kuriyan is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
