Stephen R. Leone | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Stephen R. Leone Stephen R. Leone Professor of ChemistryProfessor of Physics Faculty, Applied Science and Technology John R. Thomas Endowed Chair in Physical Chemistry Available as a research director for the Applied Sciences and Technology (AS&T) Ph.D. program. email: srl@berkeley.edu office: 209 Gilman phone: (510) 643-5467 fax: (510) 643-1376 lab: D40, D42, D39, D35, D60, D93 Hildebrand lab phone: (510) 643-5464 student/post doc office: D44/D60 Hildebrand, 2-300B LBNL Research Group Recent Publications Physics webpage Applied Science & Technology faculty Kathleen Buckley, Assistant B62 Hildebrand (510) 643-5870 Research Interests Physical Chemistry, Chemical Dynamics and Nanostructured Materials Professor Leone's research interests include ultrafast laser investigations and soft x-ray probing of valence and core levels, attosecond physics and chemistry, state-resolved collision processes and kinetics investigations, nanoparticle fluorescence intermittency, aerosol chemistry and dynamics, probing with near field optical microscopy, and neutrals imaging. Current projects are grouped along several main themes: Ultrafast laser molecular dynamics, including x-ray probing and attosecond pulse production and investigations; chemical dynamics of molecules, nanoparticles, and clusters; nanostructured materials investigations with scanned probe microscopies. Projects include: femtosecond laser dynamics, ultrafast soft x-ray, time-resolved x-ray photoelectron dynamics, attosecond dynamics, near field and ultrafast optical microscopy of semiconductors and nanowires, infrared near field microscopy, photofragmentation and radical-radical reactions, aerosol chemistry, low temperature reactions for the chemistry of Saturn and Titan. Several examples are considered briefly. Ultrafast lasers are used to probe the dynamics of molecular motion on the time scales of vibrational, rotational, or electronic periods. The Leone group investigates coherent properties. The study of molecular photodissociation by soft x-ray laser techniques has opened the way to analyze the simple breaking of a molecular bond in greater detail. High order harmonics are produced by high fields in a rare gas and used to probe valence shell photoelectron spectra and core level spectroscopy of time-evolving systems, ranging from atoms to small molecules to metal clusters. Phase-shaping of the high order harmonics has been investigated. Transient x-ray absorption is used to probe alignment and molecular fragmentation pathways through core level spectroscopy. By using few cycle carrier-envelope phase-stabilized laser pulses, isolated attosecond pulses are generated to study electronic timescales in molecules and clusters by ejecting inner shell electrons on attosecond timescales. An apparatus to probe photoelectron angular images with time-resolved high order harmonics is used to study outgoing electron waves and phases. Research also investigates the ultralow temperature gas phase kinetics for the atmospheres of Titan and Saturn, as well as to probe combustion dynamics through radical reactions. Heterogeneous chemistry is a significant new area of investigation, with applications to fuel droplet combustion and aerosol aging in the atmosphere. Experiments are being explored in confocal microscopy, apertureless near field optical microscopy, and single pulse coherent anti-Stokes Raman microscopy with phase control, and studies involving quantum dot blinking and pump-probe ultrafast studies of semiconductor nanocrystals. Other projects study aerosol light scattering and spectroscopy, aerosol reactions, as well as surface probing of neutrals desorbed by scanning ion microprobes using the chemical dynamics beamline at the Advanced Light Source. Projects Chemical Dynamics: attosecond laser pulse production and electron dynamics nanoparticle and atmospheric aerosol dynamics ultrafast soft x-rays, time-resolved x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, transient absorption Radical reaction dynamics, combustion chemistry, and low temperature chemistry Surface/Semiconductor Processes: apertureless near field optical microscopy of semiconductors Single pulse CARS microscopy of polymers pump-probe dynamics in nanocrystals blinking dynamics of nanoparticles Biography Born 1948 B.A. Northwestern University, 1970 Ph. D., Physical Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, 1974 Alfred P. Sloan Fellow, 1977-81 Department of Commerce Silver Medal Award (1980) American Chemical Society Pure Chemistry Award (1982) American Chemical Society Nobel Laureate Signature Award for Graduate Education in Chemistry, jointly with D.J. Nesbitt and J.T. Hynes, 1983 Coblentz Award for Spectroscopy, 1984 Department of Commerce Gold Medal Award, 1984 Arthur S. Flemming Award for Government Service, 1986 Fellowship, Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science, 1986 John Simon Guggenheim Fellow, 1988 Herbert P. Broida Prize of the American Physical Society, 1989 Visiting Miller Research Professor to the University of California, Berkeley, 1990 Visiting Professor at the Chemistry Research Promotion Center, Taiwan, 1992 Samuel Wesley Stratton Award from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 1992 Bourke Medal of the Faraday Division of the Royal Society of Chemistry, 1995 Fellow, American Physical Society, Optical Society of America, and American Association for the Advancement of Science Member of the National Academy of Sciences, 1995 Centennial Speaker, American Physical Society, 1999 Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 2000 American Chemical Society Peter Debye Award, 2005 Morris Belkin Visiting Professorship, Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel, 2009 JILA Fellow Adjoint, 2006-2011 Morris Belkin Visiting Professorship, Weizmann Institute, 2009 Polanyi Medal of the Gas Kinetics Division of the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK, 2010 Miller Professorship, Miller Research Institute, 2010 National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellowship, Department of Defense, 2010 Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
