Evan Miller | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Evan Miller Evan Miller Associate Professor of Chemistry and Molecular & Cell Biology Associate Professor of Biochemistry, Biophysics & Structural Biology evanwmiller@berkeley.eduOffice: 227 Hildebrand HallPhone: TBALab: 211, 215 Hildebrand HallLab phone: TBATwitter:@MillerChemBio Research Group URL Recent Publications Research Interests Chemical biology, organic chemistry, fluorescence microscopy, neuroscience, imaging. Research in the Miller lab operates at the interface of synthetic chemistry, biology, and neuroscience. We seek to exploit expertise in synthetic chemistry, probe design, imaging, molecular biology, and electrophysiology to create and deploy molecular tools for studying the nervous system. This multi-faceted approach engages a diverse group of researchers from differing scientific backgrounds, expanding our understanding of basic chemical and biological processes, and using these discoveries to investigate the brain. Specifically, we seek to address how the brain transmits information from cell to cell and develop tools to track neuronal activity with high spatial and temporal resolution. This approach to studying neuronal communication and information flux in the brain is two-pronged. First, we will develop activity-dependent neuronal tracer dyes for following signal transduction through neural circuits and within cells. Secondly, we will investigate new synthetic and genetically encoded indicators for optically monitoring voltage changes in neurons. Throughout, these approaches will be integrated into systems ranging from primary cell culture to tissue slices to whole animals in order to not only show-case the utility of our new tools, but also to explore new dimensions of neuronal communication and information transfer. Biography B.S. Biology/Chemistry, B.A. Philosophy/Theology, Point Loma Nazarene University, 2004 Ph.D. Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, 2009 (Christopher J. Chang, advisor) Post-doctoral Fellow, University of California, San Diego, 2009-2013 (Roger Y. Tsien, advisor) NIH NRSA Post-doctoral fellow, NIBIB, 2010 NIH K99 Pathway to Independence Fellow, NINDS, 2012 Assistant Professor, Chemistry and Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 2013 Associate Professor, Chemistry and Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 2020 Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
