Carlos J. Bustamante | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Carlos J. Bustamante Carlos J. Bustamante Professor of Chemistry, Physics and Molecular and Cell BiologyThe Raymond and Beverly Sackler Professor in Biophysics bustamante@cchem.berkeley.edu608A Stanley(510) 643-9706(510) 642-5943 (fax) Research Group URLRecent Publications Research Interests Biophysical Chemistry -- Scanning Force Microscope Our research is focused on the structural characterization of nucleo-protein assemblies. The structure of chromatin and the global structure of protein-nucleic acid complexes relevant to the molecular mechanisms of control of transcription in prokaryotes are investigated using high resolution scanning force microscopy (SFM). This microscope, also known as Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) works by scanning a tip over the sample to sense the topography of the surface, thus functioning in much the same way than old record players. In addition, we are studying the elastic response of long linear polymers, the forces responsible for maintaining the tertiary structure of proteins, and the mechanical properties of molecular motors, using methods of single molecule manipulation such as laser tweezers and the SFM. Our laboratory is involved in the study of the structural basis of protein-DNA interactions and their relevance in the processes of control of gene expression. In prokaryotes, and especially in eukaryotes, replication and transcription regulation involve the interaction of many specialized protein factors at regulator locations on the sequence to ensure correct sequence recognition, initiation, processivity, fidelity, and kinetic control. We wish to understand the multiple structural, spatial, and functional relationships among these regulatory factors. We are using the SFM as a high resolution tool to image initiation and elongation transcription complexes of E. coli RNA polymerase to characterize the spatial relationships between the enzyme and the DNA template. We are also beginning to investigate what structural changes are negotiated between RNA polymerase and chromatin during transcription. To this end, we are using the SFM to image complexes of nucleosome-containing DNA fragments carrying a promoter and a terminator upstream and downstream of the nucleosome positioning sequence, respectively. We plan to compare the behavior of various prokaryotic and eukaryotic polymerases as they transcribe through the nucleosome, to investigate whether transcription through a nucleosome is an inherent property of the core particle, or a property of each enzyme itself, and to characterize various intermediates of the translocation process. Our laboratory is also working actively in the development of methods of single-molecule manipulation, including the use of SFM cantilevers, optical or laser tweezers, and magnetic beads to investigate the mechanical properties of macromolecules. In one project, we first tether a single protein molecule of T-4 lysozyme between a surface and the end of an SFM cantilever. We can then separate the surfaces in a controlled fashion to induce the mechanical unfolding of the molecule to characterize the nature, range, and strength of the forces that maintain its three-dimensional structure. Our objective is to carry out the unfolding of the molecule at equilibrium so as to obtain the potential energy function of the molecule as a function of the mechanical extension. This function represents the most complete description of the folded state of the protein. We plan to investigate how external conditions in the medium, i.e. temperature, denaturant concentration, etc., or point-directed mutations affect the shape of the potential energy function. Finally, our laboratory is also engaged in the study of DNA-binding molecular motors (RNA polymerase, DNA polymerase, etc.) using optical tweezers to investigate the dynamics of these molecules during translocation, as well as the effect of external force load and nucleotide tri-phosphate concentration on their power and force generation. In parallel, we are developing both microscopic (chemical ratchet-type) and phenomenological models of molecular motors which will be tested experimentally. We believe that single molecule experiments can provide a unique look into the molecular mechanisms responsible for the mechano-chemical conversion process in these protein machines. Biography Born 1951, Peru B.S. Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia M.S. Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Kellogg Foundation Scholarship during the Master in Biochemistry (1973-1975) Fullbright Commission and Institute of International Education Fellow (1975-1976) Abraham Rosenberg Scholarship, University of California, Berkeley (1975-1976) Research Assistant, University of California, Berkeley (1976-1981) Postdoctoral Fellow, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, University of California, Berkely (1981-1982) Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, University of New Mexico (1982-1986) Searle Scholar (1984) Alfred P. Sloan Fellow (1985) Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry, University of New Mexico (1986-1989) Presidential Lecturer in Chemistry, University of New Mexico (1986) State of New Mexico Eminent Scholar (1989) Professor of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of New Mexico (1989-1990) Professor & Member of the Institute of Molecular Biology, University of Oregon (1991-1998) Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator (1994-1998) Elected Fellow of the American Physical Society (1995) Member of the Science Advisory Board of the Searle Scholars Program (1997-2000) Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator (2000) Professor in Molecular and Cell Biology, Chemistry, and Physics, UC Berkeley (1998 - present) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
