Ashok Ajoy | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Ashok Ajoy Ashok Ajoy Assistant Professor of Chemistry Contact InfoAshok AjoyDepartment of Chemistry208 Stanley Hall, U.C. BerkeleyBerkeley, CA 94720 Phone: (617) 233-1871Email: ashokaj@berkeley.edu Ajoy Lab @ FacebookAshok Ajoy @ LinkedIn Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Physical Chemistry nanoscale NMR spectroscopy, targetable spin hyperpolarization agents, methods for quantum sensing and quantum computing with spins, and the chemical physics of spin transport and dynamics at the nanoscale. Nuclear spins are ubiquitous, constituting everything around us, and are quantum objects endowed with extremely long coherence times. They do not participate in chemical reactions, but report on their local chemical environment, making them excellent reporters of chemical structure. NMR spectroscopy can probe these spins but suffer from several technical limitations. We are innovating a new paradigm of deployable NMR probes, with the aim of enabling NMR spectroscopy within natural sample environments. By "bringing NMR to the sample" with nanoscale spatial resolution, we harness the exquisite chemical specificity of NMR to reveal insights into reaction mechanisms in-situ. NMR Quantum Microscopy NMR spectroscopy probes nuclear spins in samples non-invasively and with high chemical specificity. However, NMR suffers from poor spatial resolution and is not easily deployed naturally within sample environments. We develop new tools for "NMR microscopy" leveraging quantum sensors to allow NMR spectroscopy at nanoscale resolution. This portends new chemical probes of reactions at interfaces and confined volumes (e.g. inside cells) and opens avenues for high throughput chemical screening and analysis. Methods for Nuclear Spin Hyperpolarization External probes of nuclear spins suffer from weak signals, stemming from low polarization (alignment) of spins in a magnetic field. This low sensitivity is an unfortunate consequence of the weak interaction of nuclei with their environments, a property that is ultimately responsible for the chemical specificity of NMR. We are innovating new methods of enhancing NMR signals with optical illumination by arranging for optical-spin "hyperpolarization". 'We exploit engineered optically polarizable electrons to serve as engines for nuclear spin cooling, allowing polarization levels that are several orders of magnitude beyond that conventionally possible. This promises new classes of portable NMR and MRI devices marrying together the specificity of NMR with the ubiquity and low-cost of a laser. Quantum Sensing and Computing Our work harnesses the fragility of quantum systems to deploy them as sensors in real-world chemical environments and condensed matter settings. The protocols and techniques we develop are directly relevant to quantum computing and quantum metrology. Inspired by quantum error correction, we develop quantum control methods for exploiting entanglement to push limits of NMR spectroscopy towards single-molecule levels. Probes of Nanoscale Spin Dynamics The several-second long coherence of hyperpolarized nuclear spins allows new perspectives to probe quantum systems far from equilibrium. This allows new insights into a variety of phenomena, including spin localization, thermalization, and spin diffusion, allowing probes to the fundamentals of quantum statistical mechanics. Practically, this could lead to new classes of spintronic devices that marry together spin, charge, and light for quantum information processing, and for high-density optically addressable quantum memories. Biography Born 1987 B.E./M.S. from BITS-Pilani, India, 2010 Ph.D., MIT (Prof. Paola Cappellaro, advisor), 2016 Postdoctoral Fellow, Univ. of California, Berkeley (Prof. Alex Pines, advisor), 2016-2020 Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
