Ronald C. Cohen | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Ronald C. Cohen Ronald C. Cohen Professor of Chemistry and of Earth and Planetary Sciences rccohen@berkeley.eduoffice: B68 Hildebrandoffice phone: (510) 642-2735lab: B49 and B74 Hildebrandlab phone: (510) 642-8001student/post doc office: B47 and B76 Hildebrand Cohen ResearchRecent Publications Research Interests Atmospheric Chemistry A chemical perspective on the effects of human activity on the Earth's atmosphere and on exchanges between the atmosphere and biosphere Professor Cohen's research focuses on developing and applying new experimental and modeling strategies for understanding the chemical composition of the Earth's atmosphere now and in the past and for predicting future changes. Current research focuses on the role of nitrogen oxides and on the isotopes of water. Laboratory, ground-based, airborne and space-based measurements are combined with modeling to understand the atmospheric residence time of nitrogen oxides, their impact on oxidants on regional and global scales, their interactions with the biosphere and their consequences for aerosol properties. Laboratory and field studies of water isotopes are used to understand cloud properties and to diagnose the regional and global behavior of the hydrologic cycle. Development of instrumentation that permits detection of previously unobserved chemicals or those chemicals whose distribution is poorly quantified continues to be at the core of this research program. Biography Ronald C. Cohen attended Wesleyan University where he received his BA with high honors in 1985. He attended graduate school at the University of California, Berkeley, where he received his Ph.D. under the supervision of Richard Saykally in 1991. From 1991-1996 he was Postdoctoral Fellow and then a Research Associate at Harvard University with James G. Anderson. In 1995 he joined the faculty at the University of California at Berkeley as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry and of Earth and Planetary Science. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 2002. He is a Faculty Scientist, in the Energy and Environment Technologies Division, LBNL (1996-present). In 2006-2007 he was a Visiting Professor, Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Division of Biogeochemistry, Mainz, Germany. Cohen has shared the NASA Group Achievement Award, in 2005 and in 1998. He has received awards from the Hellman Family Faculty Fund, (1999); and a Regents Junior Faculty Fellowship, (1998). He is an Editor of the open access journal Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics. Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
