Luciano G. Moretto | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Luciano G. Moretto Luciano G. Moretto Professor Emeritus email: lgmoretto@lbl.gov office: 330 Latimer phone: (510) 486-5510 Research Interests Nuclear Science Statistical and dynamical properties of nuclei and nuclear reactions Atomic nuclei are samples of quantum Fermi fluids. Their size classifies them as mesoscopic systems, whose properties are intermediate between quantum mechanical microscopy and quantum, or classical bulk behavior. The Moretto group has developed a nuclear mesoscopic thermodynamics and have applied it to the interpretation of nuclear reactions in a variety of regimes. For instance, they have predicted, and experimentally found the disappearance of strong quantum structures with increasing excitation energy. Very recently by means of strong scaling techniques they have visualized the presence of temperature dependent shell effects and nuclear superconductivity in the energy dependence of fission probabilities. The same insight has led them to the prediction and experimental verification of statistical emission of complex fragments (of mass greater then an alpha particle) from excited nuclei. They have tracked this process of fragment emission up to very high energies, where several fragments can be emitted in a single reaction event. This reaction is called multifragmentation. Quantum fluidodynamics has allowed the prediction that multifragmentation may occur through the development of surface instabilities of the Rayleigh kind in peculiar nuclear shapes like disks, tori, and bubbles. In particular the group has discovered a hitherto unknown instability (sheet instability) which manifests itself when two interfaces are closer then the force range. This instability is of a very general nature, and may play an important role on the long term stability of modern layered semiconductor materials. The Moretto group has also developed new powerful methods for the interpretation of very complex nuclear reactions. These methods have led them to discover very general properties associated with multifragmentation, like "reducibility" and "thermal scaling". For instance, the probability of emitting n fragments can be "reduced" to the probability of emitting a single fragment through a special combinatorial law (binomial). In turn, the one fragment probability yields a linear Arrhenius plot, indicating the thermal scaling characteristic of a Boltzman factor. Similarly, they have discovered a reducibility equation for the fragment size distributions, which permits to express the n fragment distribution in terms of the one fragment distribution. This equation contains an enthalpic term, associated with the energy necessary to produce a fragment, and an entropic term, which relates to the group properties of the fragmentation decay tree. Monovariant and bivariant regions have been uncovered in this process, in which the fragmenting system behaves like a saturated or unsaturated vapor. While this approach has been applied so far only to "nuclear" multi- fragmentation, it is clear that it can be applied to a variety of multifragmenting systems, for example degraded polymers. Biography Born 1940 Doctorate of Chemistry, University of Pavia (1964) Miranda Fellowship, Accademia dei Lincei (1965) Postdoctoral Fellowship, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (1966-68) Assistant Professor, University of Pavia (1968-71) Libera Docenza in Nuclear Chemistry and Radiochemistry (1970) Faculty Senior Scientist, Nuclear Science Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (1971-present) Sloan Fellow (1974-77) Alexander von Humboldt Award for U. S. Senior Scientists ((1982) Fellow, American Physical Society (1985) Miller Professor (1987-88) Distinguished Lecturer in Frontiers of Chemical Research Series, Texas A & M University (1989-90) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
