David E. Wemmer | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty David E. Wemmer David E. Wemmer Emeritus Professor of ChemistryProfessor of the Graduate School email: dewemmer@berkeley.edu office: 508C Stanley phone: 510-666-2683 lab: 531 Stanley lab phone: 510-666-2684 Research Group URL Recent Publications Research Interests Biophysical Chemistry: Proteins, Nucleic Acids, NMR Spectroscopy Magnetic resonance methods are being used to investigate the solution structure of proteins and DNA, and the nature and range of their conformational fluctuations, allowing a better understanding of how these molecules carry out their various functions. Research in Professor Wemmer's laboratory is aimed at understanding the interactions which govern the function of various biopolymers (proteins, DNA, RNA). These interactions include those which stabilize particular conformations of the molecule, as well as those through which different molecules interact to form specific complexes, and carry out their functions. The major tool used is nuclear magnetic resonance, particularly multidimensional methods, often with biosynthetic isotope enrichment. For many moderate size biopolymers the resonances can be systematically assigned to particular sites in the molecule. Nuclear Overhauser effect measurements can be used to determine interproton distances, from which structures can be calculated. In addition, structural fluctuations can be detected using measurements of spin relaxation, or exchange of amide or imino protons. These general approaches are being applied to many different problems, a few of which are described below. Solution structures have been determined for a variety of complexes of DNA oligomers with small molecule ligands. The natural product distamycin binds in the minor groove in AT rich sequences. It has been found that there are two forms of complex, one with a single ligand in a narrow groove, and one with two ligands side-by-side in a wider groove. Examining the sequence dependence of binding allows the modification of a design for GC recognizing ligands to specifically recognize mixed AT/GC sequences for the first time. The ideas are now being extended to linked dimers, and to mixed designs which recognize longer sequences. Such small molecule ligands which recognize DNA sequence specifically may be useful in molecular biology, and perhaps later as pharmaceuticals. Over the past few years most of the group's studies of proteins have focused on those involved in regulation of genetic expression. Several of these proteins are transcription factors, which are modular structures which recognize DNA and assemble other proteins into the transcription complex. While the domains which recognize DNA are well structured, those involved in forming protein-protein complexes seem to be primarily disordered. Work is now focusing on complexes to try to understand how such domains function. Other regulatory proteins under study include a bacterial repressor, and a sequence specific RNA binding protein which regulates splicing. For a majority of these studies we take advantage of isotope enrichment with 15N and 13C with 3D and 4D NMR experiments. Other ongoing studies in the lab examine unusual DNA structures, a variety of cofactors, peptides, and unnatural "bio"polymers. We continue to try to exploit recent advances in 3H labeling and NMR to address biomolecular problems. Biography Born 1951 B. S. University of California, Davis (1973) Ph. D. Physical Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley (1979) Operations Manager NIH NMR Facility, Stanford University (1980-1982) Research Assistant Professor, University of Washington (1983-1985) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
