Robert G. Bergman | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Robert G. Bergman Robert G. Bergman THE GERALD E. K. BRANCH DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY, EMERITUS Professor of the Graduate School rbergman@berkeley.eduoffice: 691 Tanoffice phone: (510) 642-2156fax: (510) 642-7714 The Bergman Research GroupRecent Publications Research Interests Organic and Inorganic Chemistry: Synthesis and Reaction Mechanisms New organic, inorganic and organotransition metal compounds are being synthesized. These materials are used to develop and study new chemical reactions and the reactive intermediates involved in these transformations, and to explore applications in homogeneous catalysis, supramolecular chemistry and organic synthesis. Since transitioning to Emeritus status, Professor Bergman has closed his own laboratory but has continued to teach and to do research in collaboration with other chemistry colleagues. Professor Bergmans research career has focused on utilizing a range of chemical techniques to discover new chemical reactions, determine how those reactions work, and apply that understanding to their application in catalysis and organic synthesis. Professor Bergman's group generated and studied reactive organometallic intermediates capable of undergoing intermolecular oxidative addition with the normally inert C-H bonds in alkanes and other organic molecules. This process holds potential for converting alkanes into functionalized organic molecules such as alkenes and alcohols. Solution mechanistic studies, as well as flash kinetic experiments carried out in collaboration with the C. B. Moore and C. B. Harris groups, identified alkane-metal complexes as intermediates in many of these reactions. In collaborations with the with the J. A. Ellman group, formerly at Berkeley and subsequently at Yale University, C-H activating reactions were used to develop new catalytic intra- and intermolecular carbon-carbon bond-forming reactions, some of which are enantioselective. Another area of investigation, currently being pursued in collaboration with John Arnold and his group, involves the study of organometallic complexes having metal-oxygen -and metal-nitrogen bonds to obtain information about the mechanisms of metal-mediated oxidation and amination processes. Some of the compounds prepared in these projects have been utilized to develop homogeneous catalysts for new carbon-hydrogen and carbon-heteroatom bond-forming processes. Finally, a collaborative project with the K. N. Raymond and F. D. Toste groups has identified highly selective organic and organometallic transformations that can be carried out in the sterically confined cavities of self-assembled nanovessels, in some cases with levels of rate acceleration that allow the encapsulated reactions to be performed catalytically. In addition to his research activities, Professor Bergman continues to teach (primarily the first-year graduate course in physical organic chemistry). He is also involved in advising and sponsoring educational and outreach programs, such as the Science Leadership and Management (SLAM) seminar and the Bay Area Scientists in Schools (BASIS) program that arranges for graduate students to make science presentations in local elementary and middle schools in cooperation with the small Berkeley nonprofit Community Resources for Science (CRS). Biography Born 1942 B.A. Carleton College (1963) Ph.D. Chemistry, University of Wisconsin (1966) NATO Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University (1967) Faculty of Chemistry, California Institute of Technology (1967-77) Sloan Foundation Fellow (1970) Dreyfus Foundation Teacher-Scholar Award (1970) Professor, University of California, Berkeley, and Faculty Senior Scientist, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (1977-2016) Miller Professor, UC Berkeley (1982, 1993, 2003) Fairchild Distinguished Scholar, Caltech (1984) Member, National Academy of Sciences (1984) Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1984) U. S. Dept. of Energy E.O. Lawrence Award in Chemistry (1994) American Chemical Society Awards: Organometallic Chemistry Award (1986) Cope Scholar Award (1987) Arthur C. Cope Award (1996) T.W. Richards Medal, Northeastern Section of the ACS (2008) James Flack Norris Award in Physical Organic Chemistry (2003) Edward Leete Award, ACS Organic Division (2001) Willard Gibbs Award, ACS Chicago Section (2011) ACS Fellow (2011) ACS George Olah Award in Hydrocarbon Chemistry (2014) UC Berkeley Dept. of Chemistry Teaching Award (2002) LBNL Award for Excellence in Technology Transfer (2004) NAS Award in Chemical Sciences (2007) Chancellors Award for Public Service, University of California; Berkeley (2008-09; 2011-12) Royal Society of Chemistry Sir Edward Frankland Prize Lectureship (2010) Distinguished Graduate Student Mentoring Award (2013) Honorary Doctorate from Texas A&M Univ. (2013) Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Distinguished Schulich Lectureship Award (2014) Welch Foundation Award in Chemistry (2014) Royal Society of Chemistry Robert Robinson Award (2014) Wolf Foundation Prize (2017) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
