Phillip Geissler | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemistry Research CBE Faculty CBE Research Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Phillip Geissler Phillip Geissler The Aldo De Benedictis Distinguished Professor of Chemistry email: geissler@berkeley.eduoffice: 207 Gilman Hallphone: (510) 642-8716fax: (510) 643-5623lab: Pitzer Centerlab phone: (510) 643-1018student/post doc office: 16 Gilman Hall Research GroupRecent Publications Research Interests Theoretical Chemistry The image depicts examples of structures observed in experiments (upper panels of b and d) and predicted by a reduced model of nanocrystal self-assembly. Our research concerns the microscopic behavior of complex biological and material systems. Using the tools and concepts of statistical mechanics, we develop theories and simplified models for chemical phenomena in condensed phases, for biomolecular structure and dynamics, and for the role of fluctuations in nanoscale materials. We also use and devise techniques of modern computer simulation to investigate such systems on molecular length scales. We interact closely with experimental research groups both to inspire and to be inspired by state-of-the-art studies of real physical systems. Among our current interests is the elasticity of disordered networks of semiflexible polymers. Specifically, we are constructing models for the polymeric framework of living cells, which can exhibit dramatic dynamical restructuring. Explaining the microscopic origins of this sensitive response is an essential step in understanding mechanical aspects of cell signaling. A second interest is the dynamics of nanometer-sized solutes in a liquid undergoing phase change. We aim to determine how nonequilibrium fluctuations in such a system can be exploited to guide the spontaneous formation of useful patterned assemblies. Biography B.A. Cornell University (1996) Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley (2000) NSF Predoctoral Fellow; Berkeley Fellow; Postdoctoral Fellow, U. C. Berkeley (2000) Berkeley; Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University (2001-2002) M.I.T. Science Fellow (2002-2003) Packard Fellowship (2005-present) Sloan Fellowship (2006-present) Department of Chemistry Teaching Award (2005-2006) Hellman Family Faculty Fund Award (2006-present) UC Berkeley Distinguished Teaching Award (2011) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060 Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Powered by Open Berkeley Accessibility Statement Nondiscrimination Policy Statement Privacy Statement Copyright 2021 UC Regents; all rights reserved Back to Top
