Elazer Edelman - Institute for Medical Engineering & Science YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr News & Events People About Give Toggle navigation Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Marzyeh Ghassemi Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Nicholas Gibson David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Abigail Ketchen Hunter Lamere Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos William McCoy Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Maura Ridge Joseph Russo Zara Smith Joseph Stein Jeff Taft Nancy Tran Rhonda Valenti Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give Institute for Medical Engineering & Science Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses Elazer Edelman Core Faculty Phone: (617) 253-1569 Email: ere@mit.edu Website: Harvard-MIT Biomedical Engineering Center Lab Phone: (617) 253-1416 Lab Fax: (617) 253-2514 room: E25-438 MIT address: 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139 Assistant to the Edelman Lab: Kim LePage assistant phone: (617) 258-8925 assistant email: klepage@mit.edu Elazer Edelman Core Faculty title(s) Director, Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, MIT Edward J. Poitras Professor in Medical Engineering and Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School Senior Attending Physician, Brigham and Womens Hospital bio Elazer R. Edelman is the Edward J. Poitras Professor in Medical Engineering and Science at MIT, where he directs the Institute of Medical Engineering and Science. He is also Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School, and a cardiac intensive care unit cardiologist at the Brigham and Womens Hospital (BWH) in Boston. Edelman received Bachelor of Science degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and in Applied Biology, Master of Science Bioelectrical Engineering and Ph.D. in Medical Engineering and Medical Physics from MIT, and M.D. degree from Harvard Medical School. Graduate work with Robert Langer defined the mathematics of regulated drug delivery systems. After internal medicine training and clinical fellowship in Cardiovascular Medicine at BWH he was Research Fellow in Pathology at Harvard Medical School with Morris Karnovsky investigating the biology of vascular repair. His research interests meld medical and scientific training leveraging pathophysiologic insight to improve clinical decision-making and device design. Studies of endothelial and vascular biology led to discovery of the mutable dynamic of endothelial state and importance in regulation of vascular diseases and cancer. His group reasoned that optimal control of biologic events recapitulated natural regulation. Hence, polymeric controlled drug delivery systems should mimic natural release and vascular implants devised with intimate knowledge of injury they induce. Perivascular and stent-based drug delivery, mechanical organ support and percutaneous heart valves are examples of the former, and therapeutic tissue engineered endothelial cell constructs of the latter. More than 350 students and fellows have passed through Edelmans laboratory publishing over 900 scientific articles and 90 patents. Edelman is fellow of American College of Cardiology, American Heart Association, Association of University Cardiologists, American Society of Clinical Investigation, American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, National Academy of Inventors, National Academy of Medicine, and National Academy of Engineering. As Chief Scientific Advisor of Science: Translational Medicine he has set the tone for the national debate on translational research and innovation. As co-founder of ASTM F04.03 he helped create standards for cardiovascular implants. He served on FDAs Science Board and as ORISE fellow FDA EIR. For bringing cardiovascular translational research to an international level of excellence the Spanish Parliament and King awarded Edelman the Spanish Order of Civil Merit. Most importantly, Elazer is an avid ice hockey goalie, and with his wife Cheryl parents to comedian-writer Alexander, Olympic athlete AJ, and Austin. degrees PhD in Medical Engineering and Medical Physics, MIT, 1984 MD, Harvard Medical School, 1983 MS in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, MIT 1979 BS in Bioelectrical Engineering and in Applied Biology, MIT 1978 selected awards/societies American College of Cardiology American Heart Association Association of University Cardiologists American Society for Clinical Investigation American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering Institute of Medicine/National Academy of Medicine National Academy of Engineering National Academy of Inventors American Academy of Arts and Sciences TCT Career Achievement Award, Cardiovascular Research Foundation Distinguished Scientist Award 2018, American College of Cardiology Giulio Natta Medal in Chemical Engineering, Milan Polytechnic Biomedical Research Day Honoree (Investigator), Massachusetts Society for Medical Research Official Citation, State Senate Commonwealth of Massachusetts Citation, House of Representatives, Commonwealth of Massachusetts* Excellence in Mentoring Award, Corrigan Minehan Heart Center, Massachusetts General Hospital research Dr. Edelmans research melds his clinical and medical training and interests, focusing on understanding how tissue architecture and biochemical regulation contribute to local growth control. Edelman and his students were among the first to validate the hypothesis that proliferative vascular diseases are the sum of effects from endogenous growth promoters and suppressors. Their characterization of how heparin-like compounds serve as suppressors and heparin-binding growth factors as promoters contributed to the creation of a rigorous framework by which to appreciate how these agents interact with one another in vivo. Additional studies enabled further definition of the nomenclature and kinetics for the FGF-2 receptor complex, characterization of synergy between many growth factors, and demonstration that the mode of growth factor or inhibitor delivery determines biologic effect. The applied aspects of their work flow from the umbrella of growth modulation. They reasoned that the optimal way to control a biologic event was by recapitulating natural means of regulation. Hence, polymeric controlled drug delivery systems should mimic natural release systems, and vascular implants should be devised with an intimate knowledge of the injury they induce. The development and mathematical characterization of perivascular and stent-based drug delivery is an example of the former, and design of an endovascular stent from first principles is an example of the latter. The basic and applied aspects of his operation are intimately joined. Work with antisense oligonucleotides, HDL receptor biology and tissue engineered endothelial implants are a few examples where these two fields come together in his laboratory. Many of his findings are now in clinical trial validation. More than 300 students and postdoctoral fellows have passed through Dr. Edelmans laboratory enabling publications of numerous papers and patents. selected publications Olender M, Anthanasiou L, Assa EB, Nezami FR, Edelman ER. A Mechanical Approach for Smooth Surface Fitting to Delineate Vessel Walls in Optical Coherence Tomography Images. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging, vol 38, no. 6, pp 1384-1397, June 2019. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2884142. [Epub ahead of print] NIHMS 999238; PMID: 30507499 PMCID: PMC6541545 Chang B, Keller S, Edelman ER. Leveraging device-arterial coupling to determine cardiac and vascular state. Accepted for publication January 28, 2019 of print IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. PMID:30703007 DOI:10.1109/TBME.2019.2895752 (EPub ahead of print) PMCID: PMC6661194 Kalluri AS, Vellarikkal SK, Edelman ER, Nguyen L, Subramanian A, Ellinor PT, Regev A, Kathiresan S, Stegmann C, Gupta RM. Single cell analysis of the mouse aorta reveals functionally distinct endothelial cell popluations. Accepted for publication March 17, 2019. Circulaton. PMID: 31146585 PMCID: PMC6693656 Fuimaono K, Mahfoud F, Tzafriri AR, Edelman ER. Procedural and anatomical determinants of multi-electrode renal denervation efficacy insights from preclinical models. Accepted for publication June 3, 2019. Hypertension Journal. PMCID: PMC6738948 Tzafriri AR, Parikh, SA, Edelman ER. Taking paclitaxel coated balloons to a higher level: Predicting costing dissolution. Journal of Controlled Release. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jconrel. Accepted for publication August 16, 2019. A full list of Dr. Edelmans publications can be foundon his website. Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Marzyeh Ghassemi Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Nicholas Gibson David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Abigail Ketchen Hunter Lamere Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos William McCoy Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Maura Ridge Joseph Russo Zara Smith Joseph Stein Jeff Taft Nancy Tran Rhonda Valenti Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login copyright IMES 2021 design by OPUS development by DESYDE COPYRIGHT IMES 2021 IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login DESIGN BY OPUS DEVELOPMENT BY DESYDE
