Arup K. Chakraborty - Institute for Medical Engineering & Science YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr News & Events People About Give Toggle navigation Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Marzyeh Ghassemi Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Nicholas Gibson David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Abigail Ketchen Hunter Lamere Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos William McCoy Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Maura Ridge Joseph Russo Zara Smith Joseph Stein Jeff Taft Nancy Tran Rhonda Valenti Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give Institute for Medical Engineering & Science Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses Arup K. Chakraborty Core Faculty Phone: (617) 253-3890 Email: arupc@mit.edu Website: Chakraborty Lab Lab Phone: (617) 258-7040 Lab Fax: (617) 253-7498 room: E25-338 MIT address: 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139 Administrative Assistant: Michelle Antunes assistant phone: (617) 258-0866 assistant email: mantunes@mit.edu Arup K. Chakraborty Core Faculty Title(s) Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor of Chemical Engineering, Physics and Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Founding Director of (IMES) Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Founding Steering Committee Member of Ragon Institute of MIT, MGH, and Harvard University Bio Arup K. Chakraborty is one of 12 Institute Professors at MIT, the highest rank awarded to a MIT faculty member. He served as the founding Director of MITs Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, and he is a founding member of the Ragon Institute of MIT, MGH, and Harvard. For over two decades, Chakrabortys work has largely focused on bringing together approaches from immunology, physics, and engineering. His interests span T cell signaling, T cell development and repertoire, and a mechanistic understanding of virus evolution, antibody responses, and vaccine design. Since 2016, Chakraborty has also been interested in the role of phase separation in gene regulation. Chakraborty is one of only 25 individuals who are members of all three branches of the US National Academies National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Medicine, and National Academy of Engineering. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, and has received many other honors including the NIH Directors Pioneer Award, the E. O. Lawrence Medal, and the Colburn, Professional Progress, and Prausnitz Institute Lectureship from the AIChE. Chakraborty has received 6 teaching awards for his classroom teaching, and 24 of his former lab members are now faculty members at universities around the world. He is a co-author of the recent book Viruses, Pandemics, & Immunity. Chakraborty served on the US defense Science board, and is a member of the Board of Governors of the Wellcome Trust. Research Interests For two decades, Chakrabortys lab has focused on understanding the mechanistic underpinnings of the adaptive immune response to pathogens, and then to harness this knowledge to help design better vaccines and therapies. Current interests in immunology can be divided into three broad categories: understanding the network of biochemical interactions that enable T cells to translate engagement of membrane receptors to cognate ligands in to functional responses, how T cell development results in T cells that are specific for unknown and emerging pathogens, and the human immune response to HIV and influenza. The goal of the last effort is to guide the rational design of vaccines and therapies against highly mutable infectious disease-causing agents. Another recent focus is the role of phase separation in eukaryotic gene regulation. In particular, how these droplets form at specific genomic loci, and how their functions are regulated by non-equilibrium processes in cells. Chakrabortys work represents a crossroad of the physical and life sciences. A hallmark of Chakrabortys research is the close synergy and collaboration between his labs theoretical and computational studies (rooted in statistical physics) and investigations led by experimental and clinical biologists. selected publications A full list of Professor Chakrabortys publications can be found on his website. Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Marzyeh Ghassemi Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Nicholas Gibson David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Abigail Ketchen Hunter Lamere Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos William McCoy Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Maura Ridge Joseph Russo Zara Smith Joseph Stein Jeff Taft Nancy Tran Rhonda Valenti Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login copyright IMES 2021 design by OPUS development by DESYDE COPYRIGHT IMES 2021 IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login DESIGN BY OPUS DEVELOPMENT BY DESYDE
