James J. Collins - Institute for Medical Engineering & Science YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr News & Events People About Give Toggle navigation Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Marzyeh Ghassemi Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Nicholas Gibson David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Abigail Ketchen Hunter Lamere Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos William McCoy Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Maura Ridge Joseph Russo Zara Smith Joseph Stein Jeff Taft Nancy Tran Rhonda Valenti Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give Institute for Medical Engineering & Science Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses James J. Collins Core Faculty Phone: (617) 324-6607 Email: jimjc@mit.edu Website: Collins Lab Lab Phone: (617) 324-6607 Lab Fax: (617) 253-7498 room: E25-337 MIT address: 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139 Assistant: Megan Lewis assistant phone: (617) 253-4030 assistant email: mblewis@mit.edu James J. Collins Core Faculty title(s) Termeer Professor of MedicalEngineering and Science, IMES, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor of Biological Engineering, MIT Institute Member, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard Core Founding Faculty,Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, Harvard University bio James J. Collins is the Termeer Professor of Medical Engineering and Science in the Institute for Medical Engineering and Science as well as Professor of Biological Engineering at MIT. He is also affiliated with the Broad Institute and the Wyss Institute. His research group works in synthetic biology and systems biology, with a particular focus on using network biology approaches to study antibiotic action, bacterial defense mechanisms, and the emergence of resistance. Professor Collins patented technologies have been licensed by over 25 biotech, pharma and medical devices companies, and he has helped to launched a number of companies, including Sample6 Technologies, Synlogic and EnBiotix. He has received numerous awards and honors, including a Rhodes Scholarship, a MacArthur Genius Award, an NIH Directors Pioneer Award, a Sanofi-Institut Pasteur Award, as well as several teaching awards. Professor Collins is an elected member of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Medicine, and the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, and a charter fellow of the National Academy of Inventors. Dr. Collinsis developing innovative ways to reprogram organisms, particularly bacteria, to perform desired tasks, such as detecting and treating infections. These programmed bacteria could lead to cheaper drugs, rapid diagnostic tests, and more effective treatments for antibiotic-resistant infections and a range of complex diseases. This work is part of the new field of synthetic biology, which Jim founded by combining science and engineering to construct biological circuits that can program organisms, much like we program computers now. degrees PhD in Medical Engineering, University of Oxford AB in Physics, College of the Holy Cross selected awards/societies Dickson Prize for Medicine, 2020 Allen Distinguished Investigator, 2016 HFSP Nakasone Award, Human Frontier Science Program, 2015 Robert A. Pritzker Award, Biomedical Engineering, 2014 Elected to the National Academy of Sciences, 2014 Genome Engineering & Synthetic Biology Innovator Award, GeneExpression Systems, 2014 Elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 2013 Elected Charter Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors, 2012 Sanofi-Institut Pasteur Award, 2012 Innovator of the Year, Boston University, 2012 Kern Faculty Fellow, Boston University, 2012 Elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, 2012 Elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, 2012 Elected to the National Academy of Engineering, 2011 Czernin Palace Bronze Memorial Medal, Czech Republic, 2011 National Collegiate Inventors Competition First Prize (student-advisor team), 2011 Irish Education 100, Irish Voice: top 100 Irish Americans in Education, 2011 Bronze Award for Scientific Achievement, US Army Research, 2010 Elected Fellow of the World Technology Network, 2010 research The Collins Labworks in synthetic biology and systems biology, with a particular focus on using network biology approaches to study antibiotic action, bacterial defense mechanisms, and the emergence of resistance. Synthetic Biology In synthetic biology, we have used techniques and principles from nonlinear dynamics and molecular biology to design and construct synthetic gene networks. We have created genetic toggle switches, RNA switches, programmable cells, genetic counters, genetic timers, kill switches for microbes, engineered bacteriophage to combat bacterial infections, and tunable mammalian genetic switches, each with broad applications in medicine and biotechnology. Systems Biology and Antibiotics In systems biology, we have developed and implemented dynamical techniques to reverse engineer and analyze naturally occurring gene regulatory networks. We have shown that these reconstructed networks can be used to identify the genetic mediators of a given disease or biological process, as well as the biomolecular targets of a therapeutic compound. selected publications A. Chavez, J. Scheiman, S. Vora, B. W. Pruitt, M. Tuttle, E. P. R. Iyer, S. Lin, S. Kiani, C. D. Guzman, D. J. Wiegand, D. Ter-Ovanesyan, J. L. Braff, N. Davidsohn, B. E. Housden, N. Perrimon, R. Weiss, J. Aach, J. J. Collins, and G. M. Church. Highly efficient Cas9-mediated transcriptional programming.Nature Methods 12 (2015): 326-28. A. J. Keung, J. K. Joung, A. S. Khalil, and J. J. Collins. Chromatin regulation at the frontier of synthetic biology.Nature Reviews Genetics 16 (2015): 159-71. D. E. Cameron and J. J. Collins. Tunable protein degradation in bacteria.Nature Biotechnology32 (2014): 1276-81. K. Pardee, A. A. Green, T. Ferrante, D. E. Cameron, A. DaleyKeyser, P. Yin, and J. J. Collins. Paper-based synthetic gene networks.Cell 159 (2014): 940-54. A. A. Green, P. A. Silver, J. J. Collins, and P. Yin. Toehold switches: de-novo-designed regulators of gene expression.Cell 159 (2014): 925-39. A full list of Dr. Collins publications can be found on the Collins Labwebsite. courses taught Taught over 1500 bioengineering undergraduates in the classroom Mentored over 150 undergraduates, graduate students and postdocs in the lab. Collinstrainees have become faculty members at leading universities, such as MIT, Harvard,Princeton and Yale, and leaders at major biotech and medical device companies Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Marzyeh Ghassemi Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Nicholas Gibson David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Abigail Ketchen Hunter Lamere Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos William McCoy Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Maura Ridge Joseph Russo Zara Smith Joseph Stein Jeff Taft Nancy Tran Rhonda Valenti Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login copyright IMES 2021 design by OPUS development by DESYDE COPYRIGHT IMES 2021 IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login DESIGN BY OPUS DEVELOPMENT BY DESYDE
