Steven Block | Applied Physics Skip to content Skip to navigation Applied Physics Search form Search About Overview Our History Contacts & Directions Jobs Giving Student & Postdoc Awards People Faculty Staff Current Students Alumni Research Overview Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Biophysics Condensed Matter Physics Facilities & Independent Laboratories Academic Programs Overview PhD program Master's program Coterminal Masters in Applied & Engineering Physics Undergraduate Opportunities Honors Cooperative Admissions Overview Application FAQs Financial Support Resources Overview Equity & Inclusion Graduate Students Postdocs Health & Safety Machine Shop & Stockrooms Photo & Video Archive Departmental Feedback Events Upcoming Events Calendar Archive News Steven Block Faculty Stanford W. Ascherman, M.D., Professor of Applied Physics and of Biology Sites Stanford ProfileGroup WebsiteResearch Areas:Biophysics & NeuroscienceDescription of Interests: Biophysics The Block lab, which carries out research in the area of single molecule biophysics, explores the nanoscience of life. Natures own nanoscale machines, which include proteins and nucleic acids, are complex macromolecules that are exquisitely designed (evolutionarily adapted!) to carry out a multitude of sophisticated functions. Using modern laser-based approaches, which include optical traps, single-molecule fluorescence/FRET, and advanced microscopies, weve been able to develop instruments that can measure the nanometer-scale displacements and piconewton-scale forces associated with individual biomolecules. Among the things were studying these days are kinesin (a motor protein), RNA polymerase (the enzyme that reads the genetic code), riboswitches (mRNA molecules that fold into shapes and regulate genes), and more (ribozymes, transcription accessory factors, such as NusA/G, Gre A/B, TFIIS/TFIIF, rho, etc.) Nanoscience and Quantum Engineering The Block lab, which carries out research in the area of single molecule biophysics, explores the nanoscience of life. Natures own nanoscale machines, which include proteins and nucleic acids, are complex macromolecules that are exquisitely designed (evolutionarily adapted!) to carry out a multitude of sophisticated functions. Using modern laser-based approaches, which include optical traps, single-molecule fluorescence/FRET, and advanced microscopies, weve been able to develop instruments that can measure the nanometer-scale displacements and piconewton-scale forces associated with individual biomolecules. Among the things were studying these days are kinesin (a motor protein), RNA polymerase (the enzyme that reads the genetic code), riboswitches (mRNA molecules that fold into shapes and regulate genes), and more. Our work also involves, among many other things, the nanofabrication of chemically-derivatized quartz cylinders and other shapes for optical trapping and the attachment of biomolecules, and the development of cutting-edge micro- and nanofluidic devices for use in biological assays. Lasers and Accelerators The Block lab, which carries out research in the area of single molecule biophysics, explores the nanoscience of life. Natures own nanoscale machines, which include proteins and nucleic acids, are complex macromolecules that are exquisitely designed (evolutionarily adapted!) to carry out a multitude of sophisticated functions. Using modern laser-based approaches, which include optical traps, single-molecule fluorescence/FRET, and advanced microscopies, weve been able to develop instruments that can measure the nanometer-scale displacements and piconewton-scale forces associated with individual biomolecules. Among the things were studying these days are kinesin (a motor protein), RNA polymerase (the enzyme that reads the genetic code), riboswitches (mRNA molecules that fold into shapes and regulate genes), and more. We use microscopes, optics and highly stabilized DPSS lasers extensively in our work. Condensed Matter Physics The Block lab, which carries out research in the area of single molecule biophysics, explores the nanoscience of life. Natures own nanoscale machines, which include proteins and nucleic acids, are complex macromolecules that are exquisitely designed (evolutionarily adapted!) to carry out a multitude of sophisticated functions. Using modern laser-based approaches, which include optical traps, single-molecule fluorescence/FRET, and advanced microscopies, weve been able to develop instruments that can measure the nanometer-scale displacements and piconewton-scale forces associated with individual biomolecules. Among the things were studying these days are kinesin (a motor protein), RNA polymerase (the enzyme that reads the genetic code), riboswitches (mRNA molecules that fold into shapes and regulate genes), and more. We have recently been able to achieve angstrom-level sensitivity with our instruments, and can consequently record the individual base-pair steps taken by polymerase molecules that move along DNA: these measure just 3.4 angstroms each. Selected Publications: Direct observation of hierarchical folding in single riboswitch aptamers Direct observation of the binding state of the kinesin head to the microtubule Applied force reveals mechanistic and energetic details of transcription termination Nanomechanical measurements of the sequence-dependent folding landscapes of single nucleic acid hairpins Single-molecule, motion-based DNA sequencing using RNA polymerase Sequence-resolved detection of pausing by single RNA polymerase molecules Passive all-optical force clamp for high-resolution laser trapping Statistical kinetics of macromolecular dynamics Direct observation of base-pair stepping by RNA polymerase Kinesin moves by an asymmetric hand-over-hand mechanism Force and velocity measured for single molecules of RNA polymerase Direct observation of kinesin stepping by optical trapping interferometry History Member for 3 years 3 weeks Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
