W. E. Moerner | Applied Physics Skip to content Skip to navigation Applied Physics Search form Search About Overview Our History Contacts & Directions Jobs Giving Student & Postdoc Awards People Faculty Staff Current Students Alumni Research Overview Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Biophysics Condensed Matter Physics Facilities & Independent Laboratories Academic Programs Overview PhD program Master's program Coterminal Masters in Applied & Engineering Physics Undergraduate Opportunities Honors Cooperative Admissions Overview Application FAQs Financial Support Resources Overview Equity & Inclusion Graduate Students Postdocs Health & Safety Machine Shop & Stockrooms Photo & Video Archive Departmental Feedback Events Upcoming Events Calendar Archive News W. E. Moerner Faculty Harry S. Mosher Professor of Chemistry, Professor of Applied Physics by Courtesy Sites Stanford ProfileResearch Group WebsiteDescription of Interests: Biophysics We optically probe single copies of fluorescent molecules in solution and in living cells, one at a time, with a combination of single-fluorophore labeling, active-control superresolution microscopy, stimulated emission depletion microscopy, FRET/polarization studies, and fluctuation analysis. In collaboration with appropriate biologists in the BioX program and others, we seek to understand the dynamical behavior of single biomolecules such as signaling proteins or photosynthetic antennas when ensemble averaging is removed, and we are measuring the protein localization patterns both in bacteria and in eukaryotic cells beyond the diffraction limit in three dimensions. A new kind of trap we have invented, the ABEL trap, allows us to grab and manipulate single fluorescent objects in solution for extended analysis. Not only can changes in fluorescence properties be sensed, but also changes in diffusion and electrokinetic mobility. Nanoscience and Quantum Engineering We optically probe single copies of fluorescent molecules in solution and in living cells, one at a time, with a combination of single-fluorophore labeling, active-control superresolution microscopy, stimulated emission depletion microscopy, FRET/polarization studies, and fluctuation analysis. In collaboration with appropriate biologists in the BioX program and others, we seek to understand the dynamical behavior of single biomolecules such as signaling proteins or photosynthetic antennas when ensemble averaging is removed, and we are measuring the protein localization patterns both in bacteria and in eukaryotic cells beyond the diffraction limit and in three dimensions. A new kind of trap we have invented, the ABEL trap, allows us to grab and manipulate single biomolecules in solution for extended analysis. Not only can changes in fluorescence properties be sensed, but also changes in diffusion and electrokinetic mobility. History Member for 1 year 6 months Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
