Hideo Mabuchi | Applied Physics Skip to content Skip to navigation Applied Physics Search form Search About Overview Our History Contacts & Directions Jobs Giving Student & Postdoc Awards People Faculty Staff Current Students Alumni Research Overview Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Biophysics Condensed Matter Physics Facilities & Independent Laboratories Academic Programs Overview PhD program Master's program Coterminal Masters in Applied & Engineering Physics Undergraduate Opportunities Honors Cooperative Admissions Overview Application FAQs Financial Support Resources Overview Equity & Inclusion Graduate Students Postdocs Health & Safety Machine Shop & Stockrooms Photo & Video Archive Departmental Feedback Events Upcoming Events Calendar Archive News Hideo Mabuchi Faculty Professor of Applied Physics Sites Stanford ProfileGroup WebsitePersonal WebsiteResearch Areas:PhotonicsDescription of Interests: Nanoscience and Quantum Engineering Experimental and theoretical approaches to complex problems at the interface of non-equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics with dynamical systems, estimation and control: real-time quantum feedback control, quantum information science, nanophotonic circuit theory, quantum nonlinear dynamics in single-atom cavity QED; quantum probability; control-theoretic methods in non-equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics. Biophysics Experimental and theoretical approaches to complex problems at the interface of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics with dynamical systems, estimation and control: chromatin mechanics and DNA/RNA folding studied by single-molecule fluorescence diffusometry, tracking-FCS and tracking-FRET; applications of modern statistical methods and signal processing techniques in learning from single-molecule data. Lasers and Accelerators Applications of lasers in single-atom and single-molecule experiments; nonlinear-optical devices for coherent feedback quantum control; laser and resonator/interferometer stabilization techniques. Bio: Hideo Mabuchi received an AB in Physics from Princeton and a PhD in Physics from Caltech. He served as Chair of the Department of Applied Physics at Stanford from2010-2016. His early scientific research was focused on understanding open quantum systems, quantum measurement, and the quantum-to-classical transition. In recent years his research group has turned towardsfundamental issues of quantum engineering, such as quantum nonlinear dynamics, quantum feedback control and quantum model reduction. Along the way his group has also worked substantially on single-molecule biophysics, quantum information science, and quantum materials. In parallel with directing his group's sponsored research, Hideo has developed a deep personal interest in exploring the interfaces of modern science with traditional craft, aesthetic philosophy and new materialism. He has been experimenting withnovel teaching initiatives to help resurrect the ideals of liberal educationin the modern university. Hideo and his group have published in a wide range of journals including Physical Review Letters, Physical Review Applied, Applied Physics Letters, Nano Letters, Journal of the American Chemical Society, Biophysical Journal, and IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control. His research has been supported over the years by the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, NTT Research, DARPA, ONR, ARO, AFOSR, and NSA. History Member for 1 year 6 months Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
