People | University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science deadline event featured list timeline open-book pencil-paper dummy arrow checkbox chevron close fetus fingerprint hamburger heartbeat magnifying-glass minus plane plus ribbon search shape skinny-arrow trophy uva-engineering-logo uva-seas-logo venus-symbol molecule award calendar contact email home left-arrow lightbulb news publications research youtube linkedin instagram twitter facebook Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science | Homepage Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Search Submit PeopleFacultyStaffResearchApplyAcademicsGraduate ProgramUndergraduate ProgramsNewsNews StoriesNews BriefsAbout Jump to Footer HomeDepartmentsMechanical and Aerospace EngineeringPeople People Find Faculty View All Faculty Find Faculty by Research Strength Toggle display of child links Engineering For Health Engineering for the Cyber Future Engineering Technologies for a Sustainable and Connected World Find Faculty by Appointment Toggle display of child links Primary Appointment Joint Appointment Courtesy Appointment View: a B C D E F G H i j K L M N O P Q R S T u v W X y z Baek, Stephen Baek, Stephen Associate Professor, Stephen Baek is an Associate Professor of Data Science at the University of Virginia, where he also holds a courtesy appointment in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Baek received his B.S. in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering from Seoul National University (SNU), Seoul,... Read More baek@Virginia.edu Google Scholar Visual Intelligence Laboratory Balachandran, Prasanna Balachandran, Prasanna Assistant Professor My interests are in materials informatics, density functional theory, machine learning, bayesian inference, and optimal design methods applied to accelerate the search and discovery of novel 2D materials, metallic alloys, ferroic and electronic materials. Read More pvb5e@virginia.edu Google Scholar Materials Informatics Group Bart-Smith, Hilary Bart-Smith, Hilary Professor Professor Bart-Smith joined the University of Virginia faculty in the fall of 2002. She obtained her undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland and her PhD degree in Engineering Sciences from Harvard University. Dr. Bart-Smith came to UVA... Read More hilary@virginia.edu Google Scholar Bart-Smith Labs Blemker, Silvia Salinas Blemker, Silvia Salinas Professor, Biomedical Engineering Silvia Blemker uses experimental and computational models to characterize the relationships between muscle structure, biomechanical properties, biology, and function in order to develop new treatments for musculoskeletal disease. She did her undergraduate and Masters work in Biomedical... Read More ssblemker@virginia.edu Google Scholar Multiscale Muscle Mechanophysiology (M3) Lab Springbok, Inc Chang, Cindy Chang, Cindy Associate Professor Professor Chang joined UVA as an Associate Professor in December 2018. Prior to her position at UVA, Dr. Chang was an associate professor of Mechanical Engineering at Stony Brook University. Dr. Qing (Cindy) Changs research has focused on improving sustainability and efficiency of smart... Read More qc9nq@virginia.edu Google Scholar Chelliah, Harsha K. Chelliah, Harsha K. Professor Professor Chelliah joined the University of Virginia in the Fall of 1992. He received his B.Sc. degree (First-Class Honors) in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Moratuwa in Sri Lanka in January 1981, MS degree in Mechanical... Read More harsha@virginia.edu Google Scholar Reacting Flow Lab Crandall, Jeff R. Crandall, Jeff R. Professor Emeritus Professor Crandall served as the Director of the Universitys Center for Applied Biomechanics from 1994 to 2019. His research focuses on understanding human response and injury with applications in automobile safety, sports, and military protection. He has extensive experience with experimental... Read More jeffc@virginia.edu Google Scholar Center for Applied Biomechanics Dedic, Chloe Dedic, Chloe Assistant Professor Dedic received her B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Iowa State University in 2012 and 2017, respectively. After graduation she worked as a visiting scientist with the National Institute of Aerospace at NASA Langley Research Center and joined the University of Virginia as an assistant professor in... Read More CD5QM@VIRGINIA.EDU Google Scholar Reacting Flow Lab Dong, Haibo Dong, Haibo Associate Professor, Director of Undergraduate Aerospace Engineering Professor Dong joined UVA as an Associate Professor in August 2012. Prior to his position at UVA, Dr. Dong was an associate professor of Mechanical Engineering at the Wright State University. He obtained his Ph.D. degree in Aerospace Engineering from UCLA in 2003. After completing his doctorate... Read More hd6q@virginia.edu Google Scholar Flow Simulation Research Group (FSRG) Link Lab Esfarjani, Keivan Esfarjani, Keivan Associate Professor I am presently pursuing my research interests in the fields of energy management and high-temperature materials. I develop computer codes and novel methodologies to perform and analyze results from these specific calculations. More specifically, I study behavior of anharmonic materials at high... Read More k1@virginia.edu Google Scholar Energy and Light Management (ELM) Group Google Scholar Web of Science Research Gate Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next Find Faculty View All Faculty Find Faculty by Research Strength Toggle display of child links Engineering For Health Engineering for the Cyber Future Engineering Technologies for a Sustainable and Connected World Find Faculty by Appointment Toggle display of child links Primary Appointment Joint Appointment Courtesy Appointment Apply Now Visit Grounds Give to Engineering Jump to Header University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science | Homepage Find FacultyNewsEventsJobs@UVADirectoryvirginia.edu Thornton Hall, 351 McCormick Road, Charlottesville, VA 22904 Phone: 434-924-3072 MediaPrivacy PolicyNon-discrimination PolicyAccessibility Like Us on FacebookFollow Us on TwitterFollow Us on InstagramFollow Us on LinkedInSubscribe to our channel on YouTube 2021 University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science
