Hampton University : School of Science : Department of Physics : Faculty About AcademicPrograms Admissions Faculty&Staff News Alumni Events Search Department of Physics Faculty and Staff Dr. Kabir Al Amin Laboratory Coordinator/Lecturer, Physics Location:Olin Engineering Building202 Phone:757-727-5091 E-mail:al.aminkabir@hamptonu.edu Expertise:Experimental Nuclear Physics, Development and Characterization of Luminescent materials Educational Background: B.S., University of Dhaka, Dhaka, BangladeshM.S., University of Dhaka, Dhaka, Bangladesh Ph.D.,2015, Kent State University, Kent,OH Research Interests: Experimental Nuclear Physics, Development and Characterization of Luminescent materials My Ph.D. research involved with experiments that were performed atthe Jefferson National Accelerator Laboratory (JLab) in Newport News, Virginia. The objective of my thesiswas to analyze and model the charge distributions of some of the lightest nuclei and estimate their radii. With recent developments in accelerator facilities and nuclear detectors, it is possible to study the internal structure of nucleus better than ever. There are various models (e.g., quark models, soliton models, and others) available in effort to describe the internal structure of nucleons. The precise determination of the distribution provides one of the best tests presently available of models of the nucleon. The measurement performed at JLab involved using a high-energy polarized beam of electrons incident upon a target and detecting the scattered electron and knock-out nucleus/nucleon in coincidence. These studies are ongoing with new experiments to be performed at the Jefferson National Accelerator Laboratory. With joint collaboration with researchers at Brimrose Corporation of America, Army research lab, Department of Chemistry at Hampton University some of my most recent works focus on the purification and material synthesis of mixed ternary lead halides for application in light source development, optoelectronics, and nuclear radiation detection. Our group is working on the crystal growth and spectroscopy of undoped, rare earth doped, and transition metal doped alkali lead chloride and bromide crystals. The work includes material studies, optical spectroscopy experiments, and data modeling related to for optoelectronics, lasers, and nuclear radiation detectors. These works have wide range of applications such as solar cells, solid state lasers, optical material, high energy nuclear/particle physics experiments, light emitting diode, and homeland security. My current teaching methods are drawn from my own experience in teaching and mentoring students. My goal for student learning is to develop problem solving skills, analytic skills, and ultimately, ability to think holistically in order to synthesize a creative solution and to deliver them successfully. To develop these skills, it is essential to get trained to think critically and actively. It is important to know the physical principles that governs the nature, but it is equally important to gain a perspective on the practicality of physics. Although, I have 10+ years of teaching experience I still consider myself a learner. I adopt Kaizen philosophy in my teaching; it is important that one evolves and make continuous improvements over time. Recent Publications: U. Hommerich, S. Uba, A. Kabir, S. B. Trivedi, C. Yang, and SE. Brown, "Visible emission properties of melt-grown Dy doped CsPbCl3 and KPb2Cl5 crystals", Optical Materials Express, Vol. 10, Pages 2011-2018, 2020. P Guye, AA Kabir, P Giuliani, et al. Dispersive corrections in elastic electron-nucleus scattering: an investigation in the intermediate energy regime and their impact on the nuclear matter, The European Physical Journal A 56 (5), 126, 2020. U Hommerich, D Hart, A Kabir, C Yang, SB Trivedi, Material devolopment and mid infrared emission properties of Dy-doped TIPb2Br5 and CsPbCl3 Proc. SPIE 11276, 243-247, 2020 D. W. Higinbotham, A. A. Kabir The Proton Charge Radius Radius form Electron Scattering Data ,Phys.ReV.C 93,055207. U. Hmmerich, E. Brown, A. Kabir, D. Hart, S. B Trivedi, F. Jin, H. Chen, Crystal growth and characterization of undoped and Dy-doped TPB for Infrared Lasers and Nuclear Radiation Detection, Journal for Crystal Growth, 470, 89 (2017). Department Links Physics Home Research Programs Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Medical Physics Society Of Physics Students Summer Programs Events News News Archive Physics Colloquiums Outreach Useful Links Faculty & Staff Galleries Connect Equal Opportunity Accessibility Title IX Legal & Privacy Website Feedback Accreditation Directory 2021 Hampton University Hampton, VA 23668 : 757.727.5000
