Hampton University : School of Science : Department of Physics : Faculty About AcademicPrograms Admissions Faculty&Staff News Alumni Events Search Department of Physics Faculty and Staff Dr. Bagher Tabibi Research Professor, Physics Location:Olin Engineering Building102 G Phone:757-728-6909 E-mail:bagher.tabibi@hamptonu.edu Educational Background:B.S. 1962, Kabul University, Kabul, AfghanistanM.S. 1968 Ph.D 1973, Moscow State University, Moscow, Old Soviet Union Research Interests: Experimental Optical Physics, Linear and Nonlinear Laser Spectroscopy including Laser Raman Spectroscopy. I am an experimental optical physicist with over 10 years experience in solar-pumped gas laser at NASA-Langley Research Center (NASA-LaRC), which is about 10 miles from Hampton University. My area of research includes atomic and molecular spectroscopy, and laser optics. I developed several optical diagnostic techniques such as electron beam fluorescence (EBF), and laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) at Hampton University and applied these techniques in Hyper Flow Generator (HFG) at NASA Langley Research Center. Currently I am involving in linear and nonlinear ultrafast laser spectroscopy of nanomaterials under the CREST Center for Laser Science and Spectroscopy (CLaSS) at Hampton University. Our research activities in the applied nanoscience and nanotechnology include optical dynamics of surface Plasmon resonance, surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS), and ultrafast nonlinear optical spectroscopy of nanoscale materials for photonic and medical applications. A rapid, sensitive, selective, and quantitative spectroscopic assay for cancer screening and drug level analysis is one of the most encouraging, challenging, and innovative forms of immunoassay and treatment for enhancing human health. More recently, we employed the SERS technique to identify the selectivity, quantification, and limitation of detection of gold-nanoparticle-assisted immunoassay and therapeutic spectroscopy on cancer markers and as well as drug identification for cardiovascular problems. I have teaching experiences over 35 years. I have been taught different graduate and undergraduate core courses and elective courses. The students, both graduate and undergraduate, in our research group publish articles in refereed journals and present papers at the regional, national, and international conferences. Selected Publications: J. T. Seo, Q. Yang, W. Kim, J. Heo, S. Ma, J. Austin, W. S. Yun, S. S. Jung, S. W. Han, B. Tabibi, and D. Temple, "Optical nonlinearities of Au nanoparticles and Au/Ag coreshells," Opt. Lett. 34, 307-309 (2009). JaeTae Seo, Qiguang Yang, Seongmin Ma, Jasmine Austin, Bagher Tabibi, Doyle Temple, Wan Joong Kim, Jinhwa Heo, Sang Woo Han, Wan Soo Yun, and SungSoo Jung, "Saturable and Reverse Saturable Absorption and Optical Power Limiting Properties of Au Nanoparticles and Au/Ag Coreshells," Applied Physics Letters, 34, 307-309 (2009). S. M. Ma, W. Yu, J. T. Seo, Q. Yang, B. Tabibi, V. Colvin, J. Heo, W. J. Kim, and S.S. Jung, "Nonlinear Optical Properties of Mushroom-Shaped CdSe/CdS Coreshells," J. Nanoscience & Nanotechnology, 9, 1341-1345 (2009). S. M. Ma, J.T. Seo, Q. Yang, R. Battle, L. Creekmore, K. Lee, B. Tabibi, and W. Yu, "The Second Hyperpolarizability of CdTe Nanocrystals using Polarization-resolved Degenerate Four-Wave Mixing," Applied Surface Science 253, 6612 (2007). Q. Yang, J. T. Seo, B. Tabibi, S. Ma, H. Wang, S.S. Jung, and M. Namkung, Light-Induced Physical Society 48(6), 1264 (2006). Qiguang Yang, Jae Tae Seo, Bagher Tabibi and Huitian Wang, "Slow Light and Superluminality in Kerr Media without Pump," Physics Review Letter 95, 63902 (2005). Qiguang Yang, SeongMin Ma, Jae Tae Seo, Bagher Tabibi, Huitian Wang and S.S. Jung, "Slow and superluminal pulse propagation in temporal nonlocal response Kerr Media," Chinese Optics Letters 3, S47, (2005). Department Links Physics Home Research Programs Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Medical Physics Society Of Physics Students Summer Programs Events News News Archive Physics Colloquiums Outreach Useful Links Faculty & Staff Galleries Connect Equal Opportunity Accessibility Title IX Legal & Privacy Website Feedback Accreditation Directory 2021 Hampton University Hampton, VA 23668 : 757.727.5000
