Mathematics and Computer Science | Faculty in Mathematics and Computer Science | Eastern Illinois University Eastern Illinois University Menu Toggle navigation a-z panthermail paws library d2l myeiu givetoEIU search history Recent Searches Trending Searches ewp Menu Dining menu academic calendar finals Web Results Directory Results Loading Search Results... Loading Directory Results... Close History Close Recent Pages Recent Searches EIU Department of Mathematics and Computer Science Home Prospective Students Apply Now About the Program Courses Scholarships Math Placement Student Resources Tutoring Scholarships and Awards Current/Transfer Student Scholarships Research Experiences and Conferences Resources University Math Challenge Math Placement Academic Honesty Faculty Seminars & Conferences News, Events, Alumni Alumni News Graduate Studies Faculty and Staff Listing <back to listing Charles I Delman, Professor Emeritus Email: cidelman@eiu.edu Website: http://www.ux1.eiu.edu/~cidelman/ Charles Delman's Vita Office Hours for Fall 2015: MTWR, 4-5 p.m., or by appointment. Frequently Taught Courses Calculus, Geometry, Topology, Foundations of Mathematics, Graduate Seminar. Education I received my bachelor's degree in Mathematics from Harvard University and my Ph.D. in Mathematics from CornellUniversity, where my advisor was Allen Hatcher. I also received a Master of Arts in Teaching, with specialty in Mathematics, from Tufts University. Research I am interested in topology, geometry, dynamics, and applications of mathematics to economics and social choice. My primary area of specialization is low-dimensional topology, with a focus on knots, laminations, and foliations in 3-manifods. I have also worked in classical geometry and billiard dynamics, both in conjunction with my EIU colleague Gregory Galperin. The application of mathematics to economics and social choice is a recent research interest through which I hope to contribute to the solution of some of society's current pressing problems. Selected Publications C. Delman and R. Roberts, Alternating knots satisfy property P,Commentii Mathematici Helvetici74 (1999), pp. 376-397. C. Delman and G Galperin, Billiards with pockets: a separation principle and bound on the number of orbit types, Communications in mathematical Physics 230 (2002), pp. 463-483. C. Delman and G. Galperin, A tale of three circles, Mathematics Magazine 76 (2003), No. 1, pp. 15-32. (Awarded the Carl B. Allendoerffer Award from the Mathematical Association of America.) Community I have given many years of leadership service to the University Professionals of Illinois, Local 4100, serving as President of the EIU Chapter from 2003 to 2009 and currently serving as chair of the Trustees and Audit Committee and delegate to the conventions of the Illinois and American Federations of Teachers. I have also served for many years as Secretary of the Mideastern Illinois Labor Council. I am proud to serve and represent the working people who make our society work! I am an avid ecological landscape gardener and a member of the Grand Prairie Friends and the Grand Prairie Butterfly Club. Faculty/Staff Login to Update Info Related Pages Tutor ScheduleResourcesChallenge of the WeekGraduate StudiesSeminars Contact Information Department of Mathematics and Computer ScienceEastern Illinois University 600 Lincoln Avenue Charleston, IL 61920-3099(217) 581-2028 Marshall Lassak, Chairmblassak@eiu.edu Bogdan Petrenko Graduate Coordinator (Math)bvpetrenko@eiu.edu Peter WilesGraduate Coordinator (Math Education)pswiles@eiu.edu Take the next step apply now schedule a visit Connect. Contact Us. Contact Us | Accessibility | About EIU | Emergency Information | Employment at EIU | Campus Map | Freedom of Information Act | Supporting our Veterans | Concerns & Complaints Eastern Illinois University is authorized to operate as a postsecondary educational institution by the Illinois Board of Higher Education.
