Guido | Columbia University : Biological Sciences Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Email Cubmail CUIT Web Outlook Access LionMail Manage My UNI Quick Links Academic Calendar Bookstore Columbia News Commencement CourseWorks Directory of Classes Employment at Columbia Environmental Sustainability Events Calendar Financial Aid Human Resources Library Hours Maps Public Safety Student Organizations A-Z Index Search form Search Main menuAboutFacultyPh.D. ProgramM.A. BiotechnologyUndergraduateCoursesNewsEvents You are hereHome Ron Guido LecturerEmail:[emailprotected]Short Research Description:Sr. Vice-President, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Systems Ron Guido has been employed in pharmaceutical development since 1980, in the areas of Preclinical Screening, Clinical Research, Regulatory Affairs, Product Development and Quality Systems. These responsibilities have included international and domestic regulatory affairs development programs encompassing drugs, devices, biologics, and nutritionals. Prior to joining Brooklyn ImmunoTherapeutics in January 2017, he was Senior Vice-President Global Regulator and Chief Compliance Officer for Veloxis, Denmark. Other past positions include Senior Director and Therapeutic Area Head for Cardiovascular Medicine Worldwide Regulatory Strategy for Pfizer as well as senior roles with Retrophin, V.I. Technologies/ Precision Pharma Services, Whitehall-Robins Healthcare, Fresenius Pharma USA, and Wyeth Ayerst Laboratories. He holds an M.S. in Technical Communications from the Polytechnic University, New York, and an MSc Pharmaceutical Medicine from Hibernia College, Dublin. He is currently Lecturer in Biology, in The Masters of Biotechnology Program at Columbia University of the City of New York Full Research Description:Ron Guido has been employed in pharmaceutical development since 1980, in the areas of Preclinical Screening, Clinical Research, Regulatory Affairs, Product Development and Quality Systems. These responsibilities have provided broad international and domestic regulatory and product development experience encompassing drugs, devices, biologics, and nutritionals. Collateral experience includes merger and acquisition, divestiture, product support and shareholder communication activities. Specific, past project responsibilities encompassed transfer of international medical products through the U.S. regulatory process, to market, and the development and implementation of novel regulatory and development strategies to reduce lead-time to market. This included of assessment of international manufacturing sites, and development of CMC and manufacturing data packages in support of U.S. regulatory actions. Support of marketed products included coordination of advisory committees, application strategy for label enhancement and line extension, and development and support of advertising, promotion and labeling for new and marketed products. His undergraduate education is in Biology and Psychology, and he holds an M.S. in Technical Communications from the Polytechnic University, New York. Directory Views Faculty - Department Faculty - PhD Program Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Departmental Staff Full Directory Research Areas Cell & Molecular Biology Chemical Biology Computational Biology Developmental Biology Evolutionary Biology Genetics & Genomics Microbiology Neurobiology New PhD Program Faculty Structure & Biophysics Navigate the Site About Faculty Ph.D. Program M.A Biotechnology Undergraduate Courses Research Highlights News and Events Employment Resources Contact Us Directory Business Office Department of Biological Sciences 500 Fairchild Center Mail Code 2401 Columbia University 1212 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Academic Office Department of Biological Sciences 600 Fairchild Center Mail Code 2402 Columbia University 1212 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027[emailprotected] 212 854-4581 Copyright 2021. The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
