Firestein | Columbia University : Biological Sciences Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Email Cubmail CUIT Web Outlook Access LionMail Manage My UNI Quick Links Academic Calendar Bookstore Columbia News Commencement CourseWorks Directory of Classes Employment at Columbia Environmental Sustainability Events Calendar Financial Aid Human Resources Library Hours Maps Public Safety Student Organizations A-Z Index Search form Search Main menuAboutFacultyPh.D. ProgramM.A. BiotechnologyUndergraduateCoursesNewsEvents You are hereHome Stuart Firestein Professor1011B Fairchild Center, M.C. 2438New YorkNY10027Email:[emailprotected]Office Phone:(212) 854-4531Lab Phone:(212) 854-4539Fax:(212) 531-0425Website:http://stuartfirestein.com/NeurobiologyFirestein Lab MembersAAAS FellowShort Research Description:Cellular mechanisms of signal transduction and olfaction. Full Research Description:The activity of all cells in the nervous system is regulated by the interaction of various chemicals, such as neurotransmitters, hormones, and peptides with membrane receptors. The ways in which these substances exert their influence is known generally as signal transduction. We use the vertebrate olfactory receptor neuron as a model for investigating general principles and mechanisms of signal transduction - receptor-ligand interactions, modulation by second messeng ers, ion channel gating, and the long term mechanisms of adaptation and desensitization. The olfactory neuron is uniquely suited for these studies since it is designed specifically for the detection and discrimination of a wide variety of small organic mo lecules, i.e. odors. The most recent work in the lab utilizes Adenovirus vectors to drive over-expression of cloned odor receptors in olfacotry neurons. Because odor receptors make up the largest family of G-protein coupled receptors (also including many neurotransmi tter ands hormone receptors) they are excellent receptors to try and understand the relation between amino acid sequence and ligand binding affinities. We are able to overexpress particular receptors as well as receptor clones with targeted mutsations and then screen these for specific ligand sensitivities. These data are then included in computer models of the protein receptor to understand precisely why one receptor is able to recognize the odor of say, roses, while another is specific for pizza. In another vein, olfactory receptors are unique among neurons for the ability to regenerate throughout an animal's life. Several experimental manipulations have been developed to induce neuronal regeneration and proliferation in vivo , a llowing one to harvest neurons with a known date of birth. By applying physiological techniques for cell recording we are quantifying biophysical parameters, such as the appearance of ion channels or receptors and the development of synaptic contacts, in developing neurons. Multiple approaches are brought to bear on these questions including electrophsyiological (from patch clamp to field potential recording techniques); molecular biological, immunohistochemica l and anatomical techniques and tools. MedLine Listing of Dr. Firestein's Publications Representative Publications:Otaki, J. M., and Firestein, S. (2001) Length analyses of mammalian g-protein-coupled receptors J Theor Biol 211: 77-100. Araneda R. C., Kini A. D., Firestein, S. (2000) The molecular receptive range of an odorant receptor Nature Neuroscience 3 (12): 1248-1255. Zhao, H., Ivic, L., Otaki, J., Hshimoto, M., and Firestein, S. (1998) Functional Expression of a Mammalian Odorant Receptor Science 279: 237-242. Menini, A., Picco, C. and Firestein, S. (1995) Quantal-like current fluctuations induced by odorants in olfactory receptor cells Nature 373: 435-437. Directory Views Faculty - Department Faculty - PhD Program Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Departmental Staff Full Directory Research Areas Cell & Molecular Biology Chemical Biology Computational Biology Developmental Biology Evolutionary Biology Genetics & Genomics Microbiology Neurobiology New PhD Program Faculty Structure & Biophysics Navigate the Site About Faculty Ph.D. Program M.A Biotechnology Undergraduate Courses Research Highlights News and Events Employment Resources Contact Us Directory Business Office Department of Biological Sciences 500 Fairchild Center Mail Code 2401 Columbia University 1212 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Academic Office Department of Biological Sciences 600 Fairchild Center Mail Code 2402 Columbia University 1212 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027[emailprotected] 212 854-4581 Copyright 2021. The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
