People Cardiovascular Tissue Engineering Home Research People Publications News and Events Alumni Gallery Menu Home Research People Publications News and Events Alumni Gallery Kara E. McCloskey, PhDAssociate and Founding Professor, School of EngineeringChair, Graduate Program in Biological Engineering and Small-scale Technologies (BEST) and Materials and Biomaterials Science and Engineering (MBSE)Address:5200 N Lake RdMerced, CA 95343Office:Science and Engineering Building, Rm 344Contact Info:Email: kmccloskey@ucmerced.eduPhone: (209) 228 - 7885Education:B.S. ChE, Ohio State University, 1996M.S. ChE, Ohio State University, 1999Ph.D. ChE & BME, Joint Program with Ohio State University and Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 2001NRSA Postdoctoral Fellowat Georgia Institute of Technology, 2001-2005Full CVGraduate Students Anley Tefera, M.S. atefera@ucmerced.eduAnley (goes by T) is a PhD candidate in Biological Engineering & Small-scale Technologies (BEST). T's project involves studying the development of a cell stretching device for cardiac tissue slices as an in vitro model of cardiac tissue. He has been funded as an NSF-Diversity Fellow, as well as, a Fellow under UCM 's Faculty Mentor Program.Edwin Shen eshen@ucmerced.edu Edwin is a PhD candidate in Biological Engineering & Small-scale Technologies (BEST) graduate program. He is interested in bioprinting and vascular smooth muscle fate from stem cells.Jose Zamora jzamora@ucmerced.edu Jose is a PhD student in Biological Engineering & Small-scale Technologies (BEST) and NSF-CREST Fellow. He studies the emergence of spatial patterning between endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells during vasculogenesis, with an interest in how mechanotransduction influences the formation of these co-populations.Basharat Jahanbjahan@ucmerced.edu Basharat is a PhD student in Biological Engineering &Small-scale Technologies (BEST) graduate program.She is interested in in vitro vascular assembly of stem cell derived endothelial cells.Maria Mendoza mmendoza65@ucmerced.eduMaria is a PhD student in the Quantitative and Systems Biology program. She is interested in identifying how the most common cancers as well as the cancers with the lowest 5-year survival rates induce angiogenesis. She will be using human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) and a microfluidic platform to answer this question.Current UndergraduatesMaha Zamar - Bioengineering Ariell Smith - BioengineeringDiana Cruz Garcia - BioengineeringJacob Espinosa - BioengineeringJallil Mancera - Human BiologyOmar Aguilar - Human Biology LAB Mascot Back to Top email:kmccloskey@ucmerced.eduphone: (209) 228-7885
