How to contact a faculty member | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomeGraduate StudiesApplication ProcessHow to contact a faculty member How to contact a faculty member Before applying to graduate programs, many departments require you to have contacted a PI as a potential advisor. However, contacting professors when you are looking at graduate programs can be intimidating. So many questions can flow through your mind like: What do I say? What if they dont respond? What if I dont make a good impression? It may seem scary, but this step of applying to graduate school can be vital to your success of getting into a program. Although this step in the admissions process is important, it may not seem clear how to go about emailing a professor, or more importantly when to. The time to reach out varies among countries and universities, but at Cornell it is best to email professors you are interested in working with during the summer or early fall before you apply to graduate school. This may seem far in advance, but it allows for sufficient time to set up a meeting with a potential advisor and to evaluate if they are someone you would potentially like to work with. Below we have compiled a list of tips and a general overview of what that initial email should look like. General tips for reaching out to professors Be formal Be concise Show enthusiasm Look through the professors website beforehand Use an informative subject line (ex: Prospective Graduate Student) Make sure your reasons for contacting them are clear (how your interests overlap with the PIs) Be as specific about the professors research as possible Attach a CV Example email Dear Dr. [name], State your full name and relevant information (ex: education, current position, what kind of degree you are interested in) Ask if the professor is interested in taking new graduate students (it is important to know that sometimes professors dont have the resources or the space to take new students) Briefly highlight your own experiences, especially as they pertain to research (e.g. share your major, lab work or senior thesis research) State the reason for your interest in their lab Mention a recent paper of theirs that you read and ask a question about that study or say what you found interesting about the paper (optional but helps) Include goals or reasons for attending graduate school Ask to speak with them Thank them for their time Respectfully, [name] *Sections do not necessarily need to be in this order fit it to your own style of writing! Also, sections should not be bulleted in email. Now that you have put together your email, we would recommend sending it to a current graduate student or mentor before. It is important to keep an open mind during the process, because you never know which professors have openings or are interested in taking you as a student. If you have emailed a professor and they have not responded within 2 weeks, go ahead and send the email again as it may have gotten lost in their inbox. Remember- do not feel defeated if you are ignored by professors! If they are not responsive, they probably would not be a great advisor for you. It is also important to keep in mind that a professor may simply reply by saying that they are not accepting students or that they dont think you would be a good fit for their lab. This is okay and it saves you the trouble of applying for that program. In general, it is useful to think of your interactions with prospective advisors as an interview for both parties. This means you should consider whether the way they communicate with you (e.g., timeliness of response, communication style, etc) will work for you. Hopefully this guide is helpful to you and we wish you the best of luck in the graduate admissions process! Additional sources Why and how to email faculty prior to applying to graduate school So, you want to go to grad school? Nail the inquiry email Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research foci Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
