Ping Wang | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomePeoplePing Wang Ping Wang Professor 619 Barton Laboratory (315) 787-2348 Email: pw15@cornell.edu My research is centered on the understanding of the biochemical and molecular basis of insect midgut physiology and interactions of the midgut with host plants and microbial pathogens. The research objectives primarily cover two aspects. The first is focused on the biochemistry and molecular physiology of the insect midgut. This major research focus aims at the understanding of important physiological and defensive mechanisms in the midgut and identifying novel target sites for insect control. The second is to apply the fundamental knowledge obtained from the basic studies to development of insect control strategies. My current research projects are focused on the identification and functional studies of midgut genes and their protein products from a lepidopteran, Trichoplusia ni, by taking EST (expressed sequence tag) sequencing and bioinformatic approaches and using biochemical and molecular techniques. Particularly, I am interested in the midgut genes and their products that play important roles in metabolism of and adaptation to plant chemicals, in interaction with microbial pathogens and in resistance to Bacillus thuringiensis toxins. The long term objectives of my researches include elucidation of defense and resistance mechanisms of insects against insecticidal chemicals and microbial pathogens, identification of new insect target sites (mechanisms) and development of novel strategies for insect control with the knowledge obtained from my basic studies.Research FocusMy research is centered on the understanding of the biochemical and molecular basis of insect midgut physiology and interactions of the midgut with host plants and microbial pathogens. The research objectives are multifaceted. My main research aims at the understanding of important physiological and defensive mechanisms in the midgut and identifying novel target sites for insect control. Current research projects are focused on the identification and functional studies of midgut genes and their protein products, pathways of toxicity of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxins in insects, and molecular genetics of resistance to Bt toxins in a lepidopteran, Trichoplusia ni, using biochemical and molecular approaches, genomic and proteomic technologies, and insect genetic manipulation techniques. Particularly, we are interested in the midgut genes and their products that play important roles in metabolism of and adaptation to plant chemicals, in interaction with microbial pathogens and in resistance to Bacillus thuringiensis toxins. The long term objectives of research include elucidation of defense and resistance mechanisms of insects against insecticidal chemicals and microbial pathogens, identification of new insect target sites (mechanisms) and development of novel strategies for insect control with the knowledge obtained from our basic studies.Outreach and Extension FocusMy extension program covers molecular diagnostics and examination of insects important in agriculture in New York. We perform identification of invasive/exotic insects and differentiation of species that are morphologically difficult to identify, so as to provide information of insect pest occurrence to government regulatory staff, researchers and growers. We also examine insect population differentiation and movement, so as to provide information on insect pest populations to Cornell colleagues and other researchers in IPM. With this unique extension emphasis which combines both field and laboratory research expertise, our extension program is an integrative component with other extension programs at Cornell to identify and monitor invasive insect pests, identify insect pests that are unidentifiable using conventional morphological criteria with field specimens (such as morphologically damaged specimens and immature stages of many insect species) and differentiate insect populations using molecular techniques.Additional LinksDepartment Research Laboratory Selected PublicationsJournal PublicationsWang, S., & Wang, P. (2020). Functional redundancy of structural proteins of the peritrophic membrane in <i>Trichoplusia ni</i>. Insect Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. 125:103456..Shao, E., Zhang, A., Yan, Y., Wang, Y., Jia, X., Sha, L., Guan, X., Wang, P., & Huang, Z. (2020). Oligomer formation and insecticidal activity of <i>Bacillus thuringiensis</i> Vip3Aa toxin. Toxins. 12:274.Chen, W., Yang, X., Tetreau, G., Song, X., Coutu, C., Hegedus, D., Blissard, G., Fei, Z., & Wang, P. (2019). A highquality chromosomelevel genome assembly of a generalist herbivore, <i>Trichoplusia ni.</i>. Molecular Ecology Resources. 19:485-496.Tetreau, G., & Wang, P. (2019). Chitinous structures as potential targets for insect pest control. Advances in Experimental Medicine and Biology. 1142:273-292.Guo, W., Kain, W., & Wang, P. (2019). Effects of disruption of the peritrophic membrane on larval susceptibility to Bt toxin Cry1Ac in cabbage loopers. Journal of Insect Physiology. 117:103897.Yang, X., Chen, W., Song, X., Ma, X., Cotto-Rivera, R., Kain, W., Chu, H., Chen, Y., Fei, Z., & Wang, P. (2019). Mutation of ABC transporter ABCA2 confers resistance to Bt toxin Cry2Ab in <i>Trichoplusia ni</i>. Insect Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. 112:103209.Shrestha, A., Bao, K., Chen, W., Wang, P., Fei, Z., & Blissard, G. (2019). Transcriptional responses of the <i>Trichoplusia ni</i> midgut to oral infection by the baculovirus <i>Autographa californica</i> multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus. Journal of Virology. JVI. 00353-19.Tian, J., Wang, X., Chen, Y., Romeis, J., Naranjo, S. N., Hellmich, R. L., Wang, P., & Shelton, A. M. (2018). Bt cotton producing Cry1Ac and Cry2Ab does not harm two parasitoids, Cotesia marginiventris and Copidosoma floridanum. Scientific Reports. 8:Article #307.Ma, X., He, W., Wang, P., & You, M. (2017). Cell lines from diamondback moth exhibiting differential susceptibility to baculovirus infection and expressing midgut genes. Insect Science. Tetreau, G., Wang, R., & Wang, P. (2017). Fitness of Btresistant cabbage loopers on Btcotton plants. Plant Biotechnology Journal. 15:1322-1330.Presentations and Activities Effect of the peritrophic membrane on toxicity of Bt Cry toxins in insects. Annual Meeting of the Society for Invertebrate Pathology. 2019. The Society for Invertebrate Pathology. Valencia, Spain. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertisebiochemistry and molecular biology of the insect midgutinsect cell cultureinsect genomicsinsect proteomicsinteraction of insects with microbial pathogens and host plantsmolecular diagnostics of insectsmolecular diagnostics of invasive insectsmolecular insect physiologyGraduate FieldsEntomologyEducationDoctorateCornell University1996Master of ScienceFudan University1986Bachelor of ScienceFudan University1983 PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
