Jeffrey Scott | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomePeopleJeffrey Scott Jeffrey Scott Professor 6134 Comstock (607) 255-7340 Email: jgs5@cornell.edu Professor of Entomology. He received a B.S. in Biochemistry from Michigan State University, a MS in Entomology (minor in Neurobiology) from Michigan State University and a Ph.D. in Entomology from the University of California, Riverside. He joined the Cornell faculty after postdoctoral study at the University of California, Berkeley. He is a member of the graduate fields of Entomology, Genetics and Development, and Environmental Toxicology. He received the Prominent Toxicology Recognition Award from the Entomology Society of America in 2012 and is a Member of Editorial Board for Pesticide Biochemistry and Physiology.Research FocusOur research is characterized by the four major areas below and seeks answers to both applied and basic questions. The techniques we use are varied and wide ranging. Insecticide resistance and evolutionary biology. Resistance is one of the major problems facing public health and agriculture. Resistance has been referred to as "instant evolution" and causes major disruption whenever vectors of human disease or pests of agriculture can no longer be controlled. We study resistance as both a problem for which we need practical solutions, as well as an intensely interesting problem in basic evolutionary biology. We specialize in investigating the mechanisms (biochemical and genetic), inheritance, management, fitness costs and population genetics of insecticide resistance. Insect genetics and molecular biology are active areas of research in our laboratory. We examine the genetic control and linkage of important traits (such as insecticide resistance), and we are now investigating the functions of a new gene repressor in insects which was recently identified by our group. We have also identified the recent "invasion" of a unique type of sex determination system in house fly populations in New York (male factor has moved to an autosome). The reason for the increasing frequency of this type of sex determination is one of many unanswered questions. Sex determination in house flies is studied to better understand the factors responsible for the differences in the linkage of the male determining factor in field populations. R. Hamm recently discovered that 100% of male house flies in Florida are autosomal males (M is on autosome 3) and 100% of the males in Maine are Y males. Her dissertation research is aimed at better understanding this phenomenon. Insecticide toxicology and metabolism studies are carried out to better understand the target sites of current and novel insecticides, as well as their pharmacodynamics (movement and fate within the organism). Studies have involved neuophysiological investigations into insecticide action as well as efforts to identify the enzymes involved in the metabolism of the insecticide.Additional LinksDepartment of Entomology Scott Lab Web Page Awards and HonorsCornell University Class Councils Faculty Award (2015) Cornell University Class CouncilsFellow (2013) Entomological Society of AmericaGraduate Student Selected Seminar Speaker (2012) Iowa State Univ.Recognition Award in Insect Physiology, Biochemistry and Physiology (2012) Entomological Society of America Selected PublicationsJournal PublicationsMoretti, E. A., Harding, R. S., Scott, J. G., & Nault, B. A. (2019). Monitoring onion thrips (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) susceptibility to spinetoram in New York onion fields. Journal of Economic Entomology. Sun, H., Kasai, S., & Scott, J. G. (2017). Two novel house fly Vssc mutations, D600N and T929I, give rise to new insecticide resistance alleles. Pesticide Biochemistry & Physiology. 143:116-121.Sun, H., Buchon, N., & Scott, J. G. (2017). Mdr65 decreases toxicity of multiple insecticides in Drosophila melanogaster. Insect Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. 89:11-16.Kasai, S., Sun, H., & Scott, J. G. (2017). Evolution of pyrethroid resistance in Musca domestica. Pest Management Science. 73:716-722.Kasai, S., Sun, H., & Scott, J. G. (2017). Diversity of knockdown resistance alleles in a single house fly population facilitates adaptation to pyrethroid insecticides. Insect Molecular Biology. 26:13-24.Smith, L. B., Kasai, S., & Scott, J. G. (2016). Pyrethroid resistance in Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus: important mosquito vectors of human diseases. Pesticide Biochemistry & Physiology. 133:1-12.Meisel, R. P., Davey, T., Son, J. H., Gerry, A. C., Shono, T., & Scott, J. G. (2016). Is multifactorial sex determination in the house fly, Musca domestica (L.), stable over time? Journal of Heredity. 107:615-625.Sun, H., Tong, K. P., Kasai, S., & Scott, J. G. (2016). Overcoming super-kdr mediated resistance: Multi-halogenated benzyl pyrethroids are more toxic to super-kdr than kdr house flies. Insect Molecular Biology. 25:126-137.San Miguel, K., & Scott, J. G. (2016). The next generation of insecticides: dsRNA is stable as a foliar applied insecticide. Pest Management Science. 72:801809.Sun, H., Tong, K. P., Kasai, S., & Scott, J. G. (2015). Overcoming super-knock down resistance (super-kdr) mediated resistance: multi-halogenated benzyl pyrethroids are more toxic to super-kdr than kdr house flies. Insect Molecular Biology. Presentations and Activities Adoption and Success of an IRM Program for onion thrips in onion: So good so far! 2018 ESA, ESC, and ESBC Joint Annual Meeting (Entomology 2018). November 2018. Entomological Society of America, Entomological Society of Canada and Entomological Society of British Columbia. Vancouver, B.C. Canada. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertisecytochrome p450evolution of insecticide resistancehouse flyinsecticide toxicologymosquitonicotinic acetylcholine receptorsex determinationvoltage gated sodium channelGraduate FieldsEntomologyEnvironmental ToxicologyGenetics and Development PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight Jeff Scott Notables Understanding the causes of insecticide resistance in Aedes aegypti Insecticide resistance in Drosophila melanogaster and sour rot Genetic pesticide: Monsanto, startups seek alternatives to manage bugs and weeds As weeds and insects develop resistance to key chemicals, genetic control methods are just around the corner RNA insecticide could target specific pests 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
