Alumni Spotlight | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni Spotlight Back to top HomePeopleAlumni Spotlight Entomology Alumni: Where have they gone, What are they doing? Here's the latest information we have on alumni, use our online form to tell us what you have beenup to. 1988 Casey Hoy, PhD Kellogg Endowed Chair in Agricultural Ecosystems Management Professor of Entomology College of Food, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center "Cornell faculty have a predisposition toward working across disciplines, and its especially strong in Entomology. I appreciated it in those around me when I was a student, but appreciate it even more upon reflection and share it within our Department and throughout my work in leading the very interdisciplinaryAgroecosystems Management Program." 1990 Sanford Eigenbrode, Ph.D. Director and University Distinguished Professor Professor of Entomology University of Idaho Sanford D. Eigenbrode received degrees in Natural Resources (M.S., 1986) and Entomology (Ph.D., 1990) from Cornell University.He joined the faculty at the University of Idaho in 1995 andhas served as the chair of the Division of Entomology there since 2004.He conducts research on the chemical ecology of insect-plant and multi-trophic interactions, including the chemical ecology of insect-vectored plant viruses.His research interestshaveexpanded to include interdisciplinary efforts to enhance the sustainability of agricultural systems. He is project director for a $20M NIFA Coordinated Agricultural Project on Regional Approaches to Climate Change in Pacific Northwest Agriculture. He has been a co-PI on two NSF-IGERT projects studying resilience of ecological and social systems in changing landscapes, which includes extensive collaboration with the Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center in Costa Rica. Sanford is also engaged in research with philosophers and sociologists focused on improving the process of collaborative science. In 2013, he was named University Distinguished Professor at the University of Idaho. 1990 Thomas Dykstra, Ph.D. Laboratory Director of independent researchlab Dykstra Laboratories, Inc I am the Laboratory Director of an independent research laboratory investigating insect olfaction from the viewpoint of bioelectromagnetics. We are involved in the development of a new insect trap(innTrap) as well as increasing our understanding of how insects smell and how better to catch them. In addition, I speak regularly to farmers and agriculture consultants helping them to understand that insects are only attracted to unhealthy plants and how they may increase plant vigor as a way of repelling insect pests. Iwas able to take 15 entomology courses at Cornell and I could not imagine receiving such a broad background as an undergraduate anywhere else. This allowed me to teach immediately in graduate school, first as a teaching assistant and finally as an instructor. My education opened up many new avenues of research in agriculture andbioelectromagneticsand how to relate them to entomology. I am happy discussing all things entomological and am grateful to Cornell for helping to foster my interest in six-legged creatures. 2003 Chung-Ping Lin, Ph.D. Insect Systematist and Evolutionary Biologist in theDepartment of Life Science National Taiwan Normal University "The research interests of our laboratory at National Taiwan Normal University include molecular phylogenetics, character evolution, island diversification and speciation of insects (labwebpage:http://web.ntnu.edu.tw/~treehopper)." "I was a graduate student from Bryan Danforth's lab in Ithaca campus during 1998-2002. Cornell Entomology is a wonderful place, where many creative and intriguing ideas are discussed and circulated by enthusiastic graduate students and the faculty. My research interest in insect biology grows in these years, through interacting with its people and with the helpof the well-equipped facilities and libraries. The broad research and teaching training in insect systematics, as one of the strength of Cornell Entomology, help me build a solid foundation for a research career first in Tunghai University, and later in National Taiwan Normal University." 2004 Nico M. Franz, Ph.D. Associate Professor & Curator of InsectsSchool of Life Sciences Arizona State University "I was a graduate student in the Department from 1999-2004; with Quentin Wheeler, Brian Danforth, Paul Feeny, and James Liebherr as advisors in various key roles. I studied insect systematics and Cornell was an incredibly formative environment for me. Among other things, my Entomology training allowed me to explore conceptual and computational issues in systematics which opened a pathway to a postdoc in that interdisciplinary area; and ultimately to my current tenured employment (since 2011) at Arizona State University. I think back very fondly of my years in the Department of Entomology." 2008 Ronda Hamm, Ph.D. Dow AgroSciences Senior Biologist "The Cornell Department of Entomology prepared me for my current role by giving me the confidence in research methodologies and development, in addition to the critical thinking and evaluation skills necessary for my role. My career path has varied in the types of roles that I have accepted. I enjoy the diversity and continuous learning that has occurred throughout my years in Dow AgroSciences." 2010 George Lin, Ph.D. Dow AgroSciences in Taiwan Field Station Research Scientist I'll always remember my first day inthe hallway of the 2nd floor of Comstock Hall and peoples faces expressing their deep blessing and respect to me when they knew a young boy from a different country was a graduate student inJeff Scott's lab. Maybe life was never easy at the beginning, but the training of never being easy, I found, has become aturning point and easy way leading me to everywhere of life is not that hard. I thank my Ph.D. major advisor and mentor, Jeff Scott, for such wonderful training and support. I also appreciate a very special year of postdoctoral training at Angela Douglas' lab at Cornell Entomology. I am currently working at Dow AgroSciences in Taiwan as a field station scientist in my home country. As a field scientist, I very much enjoy the sunlight and sweat in tropical places and doing my best everyday to get the best work done. 2012 Frank Rinkevich, Ph.D. Louisiana State University, Lab ofKristen Healy Postdoctoral Associate "I'm currently a postdoc at Louisiana State University in Kristen Healy's lab looking at the way mosquito treatments effect honey survival as well as evaluating the insecticide sensitivity of different stocks of honey bees." "Working for Jeff Scott was one of the most influential experiences in my life. Jeff taught me how to think and act like a scientist and make the most out of any presentation whether in a classroom or conference hall. The shared resources and collaborative environment in Comstock, and Cornell at large, were outstanding examples of how science is done and intellectually satiating." 2013 Emily Bick Rainbow TreecareScientific Advancements Research and Development Project Manager "The Cornell Entomology Department was a rigorous curriculum that I am thankful for every day as I work as a Board Certified Entomologist. It opened up a world of possibility while inciting my passion for people-insect interactions and applied research. I am a Research and Development Project Manager at Rainbow Treecare Scientific Advancements and a Board Certified Entomologist. Within Rainbow Scientific, I am the project leader on more than ten research projects, spanning from Kansas City to Honolulu, with topics ranging from Emerald Ash Borer strategy to developing a novel methodology for dosing trees based on surface area." 2013 Rakim Turnipseed, Ph.D. Ecolab Principal Entomologist within Research, Development, and Engineering Pest Elimination Division I am currently a Principal Entomologist at Ecolab within the Research, Development, and Engineering Pest Elimination Division.I am responsible for enhancing our innovation pipeline as it relates to new technologies and services that we can leverage to achieve pest elimination for our customers in North America, Latin America, Greater China, Asia Pacific, and Middle East Africa. I also serve as a global thought leader and subject matter expert for our division. My wife and three kids reside in the Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area. My experience in John Losey's Lab taught me how to perform scientific writing and analyze data, which I regularly do in my current role. John also helped me get to UC Berkeley where I received my PhD, which ultimately landed me my current corporate position. Additionally, my experience in Linda Rayor's Natural Outreach Program taught me how to communicate technical information to others with less background knowledge, which I regularly do when interfacing with teams in Marketing, Commercial Solutions, and field Operations. PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Follow Us with Social Media 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
