Gregory Loeb | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomePeopleGregory Loeb Gregory Loeb Professor 428 Barton Lab (315) 787-2345 Email: gme1@cornell.edu Training in insect ecology with specific research and extension responsibilities for grapes and small fruit crop. I also co-teach a course on grape pest management. Research FocusThe overall goal of my research program is to understand the principal forces that influence species interactions involving plants, herbivores, natural enemies and more recently microbes with the specific applied goal of developing novel approaches to pest management with a focus on grapes and small fruit crops. Currently, considerable research effort is being directed at developing a better understanding of the biology and management of the invasive species spotted wing drosophila (Drosophila suzukii), a significant pest of soft-skinned fruit crops throughout much of North America and abroad. Projects include chemical ecology and behavior of host finding as basis for behavioral management, overwintering and spring biology, monitoring and decision making, interactions with microbes, including biological control with entomopathogens, mechanical control using netting, and optimizing chemical control. Other research projects ongoing in the lab include vector-pathogen interactions (e.g. grape leafroll disease and mealybug and soft scale insect vectors, fire blight in apples and interactions with insect vectors, sour rot in grapes and Drosophila) and understanding and enhancing ecosystem services (pollination and biological control) in strawberries. The program utilizes a number of different research tools to achieve objectives such as gas chromatography coupled with electroantennographic detection (GC-EAD) and GC-mass spectrophotometry, wind tunnel and other behavioral laboratory bioassays, growth chamber, greenhouse and field cage experiments and open field experiments on research and commercial farms. In addition, the lab has important collaborations with researchers within Cornell entomology and outside of the department and University.Outreach and Extension FocusMy goal is to translate and transfer results of applied research to our grower clientele so that they will be better informed and better able to make sound pest management decisions. Moreover, I also strive to communicate to the wider public about insect biology, agriculture, and environmental stewardship. My activities include authoring the insect and mite pest management sections for the small fruit and grape pest management guidelines, preparing newsletter articles including a major review each spring for both grapes and small fruit crops, giving talks at annual grower meetings as well as summer field meetings, directly answering phone calls and emails from growers and extension educators and farm visits. I work closely with extension educators and NYS IPM Fruit Coordinator in developing extension programming. In the past several years I have also developed webinars on important pest management themes that are presented and archived on the internet. As part of my outreach effort I help set up and man exhibits at local and regional events such as Fun on the Farm at various sites in Ontario County, Empire Farm Days, and Insectapalooza, the annual entomology open house in Ithaca, NY.Teaching FocusI participate in the undergraduate major in viticulture and enology, co-teaching a course on grape pest management. My emphasis is on grape entomology. This is an integrated course that combines insect and disease management with spray technology. Our emphasis is on providing practical knowledge that will help prepare students for the real world of viticulture.Additional LinksDepartment Loeb Lab Awards and HonorsExcellence in Integrated Pest Management (2016) Eastern Branch of Entomological Society of AmericaNew York Wine & Grape Foundation Award for major contributions in research and education (2011) New Yrork Wine & Grape FoundationExcellence in IPM (2010) New York State IPM Program, Cornell UniversitySelected PublicationsJournal PublicationsWallingford, A. K., Cha, D. H., & Loeb, G. M. (2018). Evaluating a pushpull strategy for management of Drosophila suzukii Matsumura in red raspberry. Pest Management Science. 74:120-125.Bost, A., Franzenburg, S., Adair, K. L., Martinson, V. G., Loeb, G. M., & Douglas, A. E. (2017). How gut transcriptional function of Drosophila melanogaster varies with the presence and composition of the gut microbiota. Molecular Ecology. 12.Wallingford, A. K., Cha, D. H., Linn, C. E., Wolfin, M. S., & Loeb, G. M. (2017). Robust manipulations of pest insect behavior using repellents and practical application for integrated pest management. Environmental Entomology. 46:1041-1050.Wallingford, A., Lee, J., & Loeb, G. M. (2016). The influence of temperature and photoperiod on the reproductive diapause and cold tolerance of spotted-wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii (Matsumura). Entomologia Experimentalis et Applicata. 159:327-337.Wallingford, A., Connelly, H., Brind'Amour, G., Boucher, M., Mafra-Neto, A., & Loeb, G. M. (2016). Field evaluation of an oviposition deterrent for management of spotted wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii Matsumura, and potential non-target effects. Journal of Economic Entomology. 109:6.Connelly, H., Poveda, K., & Loeb, G. M. (2015). Landscape simplification negatively affects wild bee pollination services to strawberry. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment. 211:51-56.Pozzebon, A., Loeb, G. M., & Duso, C. (2015). Role of supplemental foods and habitat structural complexity in persistence and coexistence of generalist predatory mites. Scientific Reports. 5:14997.Wallingford, A. K., Fuchs, M. F., Martinsion, T., Hesler, S., & Loeb, G. M. (2015). Slowing the spread of grapevine leafroll-associated viruses in commercial vineyards with insecticide control of the vector, Pseudococcus maritimus (Erhorn) (Hemiptera: Pseudococcidae). Journal of Insect Science. 15:112.Wallingford, A. K., Hesler, S. P., Cha, D. H., & Loeb, G. M. (2015). Behavioral response of spotted wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii Matsumura, to aversive odors and a potential oviposition deterrent in the field. Pest Management Science. Cha, D., Hesler, S., Cowles, R., Vogt, H., Loeb, G. M., & Landolt, P. (2013). Comparison of a synthetic chemical lure and standard fermented baits for trapping Drosophila suzukii (Diptera: Drosophilidae). Environmental Entomology. 42:1052-1060. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertisebiological controlchemical ecologyecosystem servicesgrapegrape pest managementintegrated pest managementipmpest arthropodsplant/insect interactionssmall fruittri-trophic interactionsviticultureEducationDoctorateUniversity of California at Davis1989Master of ScienceSan Diego State University1982Bachelor of ScienceUniversity of California at Davis1977 PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight Greg Loeb Notables Five Questions for Greg Loeb ESA Names Winners of 2016 Awards Wasp Rediscovered After Almost 100 Years 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
