Brian Nault | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomePeopleBrian Nault Brian Nault Professor 525 Barton Laboratory (315) 787-2354 Email: ban6@cornell.edu My research program focuses on understanding the biology and ecology of insects that attack and/or spread viruses to vegetable crops. Major projects have included describing spatial and temporal patterns of insect dispersal and the epidemiology of insect-transmitted viruses in vegetable cropping systems. Information generated from this research has advanced our knowledge about predicting pest outbreaks, developing insecticide resistance management strategies and mitigating the spread of insect-transmitted viruses. Information generated from my research program is conveyed to the vegetable industry at producer-focused meetings, publications and via the web.Research FocusThe goal of my research program is to provide regional, national and international leadership on biological and ecological studies of insects that impact vegetable crops and to utilize this scholarly information for developing or refining innovative pest management and crop production strategies that will benefit the user, environment and the consumer. I have two programmatic foci. The first is to produce scholarly contributions in insect ecology as it pertains to: a) pests that attack and transmit viruses to vegetable crops and b) beneficial insects that provide ecological services that improve crop production. The second focus is to make significant advancements in vegetable crop production by developing: a) management strategies for vegetable insect pests and the viruses they transmit to vegetable crops and b) practices that enhance ecological services provided by beneficial insects, especially bees. Both foci are based on the principles of landscape ecology, especially as it pertains to the diverse agricultural ecosystems typical of the Northeast.Outreach and Extension FocusExtension: The purpose of my extension program is to educate growers, extension educators and other stakeholders involved in the vegetable crop industry about management strategies for vegetable insect pests that improve the efficiency of management inputs and safety to the user and environment. I also deliver information about how to improve crop performance using bees in cucurbit crops. Delivery of information is a dynamic process that involves several specific activities such as (1) face-to-face contacts with the vegetable industry at meetings, (2) writing vegetable pest management and crop improvement articles for newsletters and trade magazines, (3) providing pest management information on the Cornell Vegetable website, (4) updating annually the CCE Integrated Crop and Pest Management Guidelines for Vegetable Production, (5) participating in the annual CCE In-Service Training session, and (6) responding to questions from the vegetable industry through visits on farm, over the phone or via email. A primary indicator used to evaluate the impact of my extension program is the number of positive written and verbal comments I receive from audiences that attend my formal and informal extension presentations. Consequently, I am invited annually to speak at several conferences and meetings within New York as well as similar meetings throughout the US and Canada. Another important measure of success is that University extension colleagues from Cornell and elsewhere consider me as a resource for updating them on advancements in vegetable insect pest management. Outreach: Educating youth about science is particularly important given the apparent erosion in interest and knowledge about science in the US. Several times each year I talk about general entomology to elementary classes from the Geneva City School District and other groups such as cub scouts and 4-H. Additionally, I have participated in events for the public in Ontario County that teach the public about Entomology and the types of research conducted at the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station.Teaching FocusI give guest lectures occasionally in Entomology 2410 and Horticulture 3500, which are undergraduate/graduate level courses. My lecture focuses on principles in vegetable entomology and how this information can be used to better manage arthropod pests of vegetables.Additional LinksDepartment of Entomology Nault Lab Web Page Awards and HonorsEntomological Foundation Award for Excellence in IPM (2018) Entomological Society of Americas Eastern BranchExcellence in Multistate Research Award (2018) Western Association of Agricultural Experiment Station DirectorsExcellence in Integrated Pest Management Award (2012) New York State IPM ProgramSelected PublicationsJournal PublicationsLeach, A., Hoepting, C. A., & Nault, B. A. (2019). Grower adoption of insecticide resistance management practices increase with extension-based program. Pest Management Science. 75:515526.Moretti, E. A., Harding, R. S., Scott, J. G., & Nault, B. A. (2019). Monitoring onion thrips (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) susceptibility to spinetoram in New York onion fields. Journal of Economic Entomology. toz032.Perez, R. M., Nault, B. A., & Poveda, K. (2018). Contrasting effects of landscape composition on crop yield mediated by specialist herbivores. Ecological Applications. 28:842853.Schmidt-Jeffris, R., & Nault, B. A. (2018). Crop spatiotemporal dominance and management practices affect populations of a pest and its potential predators. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment. 265:331-339.Leach, A., Fuchs, M., Harding, R., Schmidt-jeffris, R., & Nault, B. A. (2018). Importance of transplanted onions contributing to late-season iris yellow spot virus epidemics in New York. Plant Disease. 102:1264-1272.Leach, A., Reiners, S., Fuchs, M., & Nault, B. A. (2017). Evaluating integrated pest management tactics for onion thrips and pathogens they transmit to onion. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment. 250:89-101.Schmidt-Jeffris, R. A., & Nault, B. A. (2017). Residual activity of diamide insecticides for Ostrinia nubilalis control in processing snap bean. Crop Protection. 98:116-123.Smith, E. A., Shields, E. J., & Nault, B. A. (2017). Onion thrips colonization of onion fields bordering crop and non-crop habitats in muck cropping systems. Journal of Applied Entomology. 141:574-582.Schmidt-Jeffris, R., & Nault, B. A. (2016). Anthranilic diamide insecticides delivered via multiple approaches to control vegetable pests: A case study in snap bean. Journal of Economic Entomology. 109:2479-2488.Jacobson, A., Nault, B. A., Vargo, E., & Kennedy, G. (2016). Restricted gene flow among lineages of Thrips tabaci supports genetic and reproductive divergence among cryptic species groups. PLOS One. Presentations and Activities Allium leafminer: A new invasive threat to Allium crops in North America. 2018 ESA, ESC, and ESBC Joint Annual Meeting (Entomology 2018). November 2018. Entomological Society of America, Entomological Society of Canada and Entomological Society of British Columbia. Vancouver, B.C. Canada. Adoption and Success of an IRM Program for onion thrips in onion: So good so far! 2018 ESA, ESC, and ESBC Joint Annual Meeting (Entomology 2018). November 2018. Entomological Society of America, Entomological Society of Canada and Entomological Society of British Columbia. Vancouver, B.C. Canada. Increasing use of action thresholds in managing onion thrips on New York onion farms. 2018 ESA, ESC, and ESBC Joint Annual Meeting (Entomology 2018). November 2018. Entomological Society of America, Entomological Society of Canada and Entomological Society of British Columbia. Vancouver, B.C. Canada. Relationship between Stemphylium vesicarium and onion thrips (Thrips tabaci) in the development of Stemphylium leaf blight disease. International Congress of Plant Pathology (ICPP) 2018: Plant Health in A Global Economy. July 2018. International Society for Plant Pathology. Boston, MA United States . Successful adoption of action threshold-based insecticide programs for thrips management in onion. 9th International Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Symposium. March 2018. Various Sponsors. Baltimore, MD United States. Biology and management of Phytomyza gymnostoma: a new invasive pest of Allium crops in the eastern US. Entomological Society of America Eastern Branch Meeting. March 2018. Entomological Society of America - Eastern Branch. Annapolis, MD United States. Evaluating effects of nitrogen fertilizer and insecticide use in managing onion thrips (Thrips tabaci) in onion. Entomological Society of Americas Eastern Branch meeting. March 2018. Entomological Society of America - Eastern Branch. Annapolis, MD United States. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertiseinsect dispersalinsect ecologyinsect vectors of plant diseasesinsecticide resistance managementipmvegetable entomologyGraduate FieldsEntomologyPlant ProtectionEducationDoctorateNorth Carolina State University1994Master of ScienceUniversity of Georgia1990Bachelor of ScienceThe Ohio State University1988 PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight Brian Nault Notables 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
