Linda Rayor | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomePeopleLinda Rayor Linda Rayor Senior Lecturer and Senior Research Associate 4130 Comstock (607) 255-8406 Email: lsr1@cornell.edu Behavioral ecologist specializing in arthropod social behavior. Inspiring, prize-winning teacher who recognizes the importance of communicating the value of science to the public through outreach and Insectapalooza.Research FocusEvolution of sociality must involve adaptive benefits to offset the costs of living closely with competitors, especially among potentially cannibalistic predators such as spiders. These adaptations may involve behavioral, ecological, and physiological strategies for living in groups. There are four social Australian huntsman species, whose sociality I have discovered, that live in prolonged subsocial groups that are characterized by distinctive developmental and physiological differences from the 29 solitary huntsman species Ive worked with. I recently discovered another prolonged subsocial species in another subfamily with similar physiological traits. I am collaborating to do phylogenetic and behavioral trait mapping from 40 huntsman spiders, as well as submitting papers on the physiological basis for sociality. .Outreach and Extension FocusStudies indicate that formally training undergraduates how to do effective scientific outreach greatly enhances the probability of these students going on to become STEM teachers or to continue to do informal science education that communicates the value of science to the public. Naturalist Outreach Practicum is an innovative, interdisciplinary service-learning course on how to do effective scientific outreach and to organize outreach events (http://blogs.cornell.edu/naturalistoutreach). Over the last four years, much of my public speaking has been about the importance of training students and others in outreach skills, and how to start outreach programs. As a major portion of their training, the Cornell students in Naturalist Outreach [Entom 3550, 4cr] participate in what is effectively a speakers bureau where teachers request hands-on presentations about understanding nature and environmental biology for their classes. Naturalist Outreach students are reaching students in seven counties in Central NY and neighboring states (NJ, PA). Naturalist Outreach students speak to 2nd grade through middle school classes most frequently, but work with all ages at community events like the NY State Fair and Insectapalooza. Since 1998, Dr. Rayor and 354 Cornell students have given outreach presentations to over 3000 classes or community groups, reaching over 113,000 people. With funding from CCE/NYS 4H and NSF DUE Dr. Rayor has produced a series of short science content videos about behavior, understanding nature, and biodiversity starring her best outreach students. The videos are designed to present key concepts suitable for use in classrooms. My YouTube channel (www.youtube.com/naturalistoutreach) has 36 videos, which feature stunning visuals of the natural world, immersive soundscapes, and compelling biological stories. The latest video, Plant Defenses, has just been released, with Raptor Biology being filmed in Spring 2019. The videos have been viewed 1.85 million times and have 4100 subscribers. Just as my participation in 13-episodes of the Science Discovery show Monster Bug Wars has had a concrete impact on childrens interest in entomology, my participation in the Australian Museums spider exhibit Spiders: Fear & Fascination has helped increase the publics understanding of spiders. These are both high profile outreach projects that reach an exceptionally wide audience.The Naturalist Outreach program acts as a speakers bureau to send Cornell undergraduates and graduate students to local classrooms and community groups to talk about the environmental science. By presenting lively, well-grounded, age-appropriate, science-inquiry based presentations, we help open the world of backyard biology to young people, enrich local 2nd H.S. science instruction, and simultaneously train Cornell students to communicate effectively about science. The Naturalist Outreach Program is a response to the national need for attracting students into science, for scientists who can communicate the value of their work to the public, and the need to enhance appreciation for the environment.Insectapalooza. In 2003, I was asked to conceptualize and organize an Insect Fair for the Department of Entomology. In the last 10 years, I have coordinated or co-coordinated the entire event five or six times. In all years, I have organized several of the major events (Arthropod Zoo, all permits for Butterfly House) and assisted in making the event happen in a significant way. Insectapalooza relies on a large number of volunteers, and my lab group and entire Naturalist Outreach course have be volunteers making all of the wall posters, hall way displays, and other significant organizational aspects. I have made certain that Insectapalooza has media coverage and give an average of 4 television or radio interviews every year. My vision for and hard work to make Insectapalooza happen as a major community outreach event which appeals to children and adults speaks for itself. What I am most pleased with and am willing to take credit for is helping to change the departmental culture to one where there is an expectation of participation in community outreach through Insectapalooza.NYS 4H: I am involved with NYS 4H programing through the development of Naturalist Outreach STEM videos on youtube, and through participating in 4H programatic events such as STARR and Career Explorations. Additionally, have a Cornell University Entomology and Naturalist Outreach table at the NYS Fair for two days every year in the 4H Youth Bureau.Teaching FocusSpider Biology [Entom 3150, 3 credits, lecture and lab, taught Fall 2005-2006, 2008-2011, 2013- 2014, 2016, 2018]: My Spider Biology class is one of the few arachnology courses in the world. The course combines diversity and evolution, with emphasis on the behavioral ecology of arachnids. Along with lectures, the course includes diurnal and nocturnal field trips, and two 1.5-day experiential Open Labs with an exceptionally diverse collection of live arachnids. In addition, the students enrolled in Entom 3150 learn to key out spiders for a synoptic spider collection, compile a class identification manual, and design experiments with live arachnids. The addition of a laboratory component to the class has been well-received by the students and is more popular than the lecture course alone. Why is spider biology important to Cornell University and NYS stakeholders? Spiders are of enormous concern to the public, but poorly understood. Students completing this excellent course effectively become specialists who provide useful knowledge to their communities.Spider Biology [Entom 2150, 2 credits, lecture, taught 24 times since 1994]: My Spider Biology class is one of the few arachnology courses in the world. The course combines diversity and evolution, with emphasis on the behavioral ecology of arachnids. Along with lectures, the course includes diurnal and nocturnal field trips, and two 1.5-day experiential Open Labs with an exceptionally diverse collection of live arachnids. Why is spider biology important to Cornell University and NYS stakeholders? Spiders are of enormous concern to the public, but poorly understood. Students completing this excellent course effectively become specialists who provide useful knowledge to their communities.Naturalist Outreach Practicum [Entom 3350, 4 credits, taught Fall 2005 2018], is an innovative, interdisciplinary experiential course on how to do effective scientific outreach and to organize outreach events in environmental biology. Additionally, the Naturalist Outreach course runs a large STEM outreach program in which the students engage with elementary and secondary students and teacher communities in seven countries throughout Central NY and neighboring states (NJ, PA). Teaching college students to engage in science outreach empowers them and translates into future STEM teachers and science communicators (Harrison, et al. 2011, Laursen et al. 2012). However, this course is one of the few in the country which specifically teaches college students the necessary skill sets. The goals of the course are 1) to train the college students to speak about science with passion and clarity, and 2) to provide the ethos to help develop civically engaged outreach leaders of the future. Surveys of former participants indicate that over 41% have gone on to become teachers, taken leadership positions in existing outreach programs, developed their own outreach programs, or redirected their careers into informal science education. Since 1998, I and my 303 students have spoken to over 3000 groups and reached over 113,000 people. The class counts toward the Communication distribution requirement.Insect Behavior (3 credits). Insects are the most diverse organisms on earth, with equally diverse behavior. This course introduces the fascinating world of insect behavior at the level of individual sensory mechanisms, information processing, as well as behavioral interactions among insects and their environment. Throughout the course, I have organized each section of the course to combine both more mechanistic, individual perceptual or processing aspects of behavior with a more behavioral ecological or evolutionary approach to behavior. A number of guest speakers talk about their areas of expertise in insect behavior.I teach two experiential courses every Fall semester (Spider Biology and Naturalist Outreach Practicum), as well as Insect Behavior intermittently. I have the deserved reputation as an outstanding teacher. My courses provide important contributions to the CALS Biology Curriculum in two important ways: providing diversity training in organismal biology and providing courses with an exceptional component of experiential or service-learning (Spider Biology 215, Spider Biology 315, Naturalist Outreach Practicum, Insect Behavior) that have been productively integrated with my research program. I closely mentor and teach behavioral research skills to a large number of talented undergraduate students in my program. I have won the following teaching awards: the 2007 CALS Innovative Teacher, 2005 Kaplan Family Distinguished Faculty in Service Learning and Entomology Society of America Distinguished Achievement in Teaching Award (Eastern Branch).Additional LinksRayor Lab Rayor Outreach Program - Naturalist Outreach Naturalist Outreach Youtube videos Awards and HonorsDistinguished Achievement in Teaching, Eastern Branch (2016) Entomology Society of AmericaAlice Cooke House Fellow (2016) Penny Bernstein Distinguished Teacher Award (2015) Animal Behavior SocietyDistinguished Achievement Award in Teaching (2008) Entomology Society of America, Eastern BranchInnovative Teacher Award (2007) Cornell College of Agriculture and Life SciencesSelected PublicationsJournal PublicationsYip, E. C., & Rayor, L. S. (2014). Maternal care and subsocial behavior in spiders. Biological Reviews. Biological Reviews. 89:427-449.Agnarsson, I., & Rayor, L. S. (2013). A molecular phylogeny of the Australian huntsman spiders (Sparassidae, Deleninae): Implications for taxonomy and social behaviour. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution. 69:895 - 905 .Yip, E. C., & Rayor, L. S. (2013). The influence of siblings on body condition in a social spider: Is prey sharing cooperation or competition? Animal Behaviour. 85:1161 - 1168.Hoogland, J., Cully, J., Rayor, L. S., & Fitzgerald, J. (2012). Conflicting research on the demography, ecology, and social behavior of Gunnisons prairie dogs (Cynomys gunnisoni). Journal of Mammalogy. 93:1075-1085.Yip, E. C., Rowell, D. M., & Rayor, L. S. (2012). Behavioural and molecular evidence for selective immigration and group regulation in the social huntsman spider, Delena cancerides (Araneae: Sparassidae). Biological Journal of the Linnean Society. 106:749 - 762.Yip, E. C., & Rayor, L. S. (2011). Do social spiders cooperate in predator defense and foraging without a web? Behavioral Ecology & Sociobiology 65: 1935-1947. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology. 65:1935 - 1947.Auletta, A., & Rayor, L. S. (2011). Preferential prey sharing among kin not found in the social huntsman spider, Delena cancerides (Sparassidae). Journal of Arachnology. 39:258-262.Rayor, L. S., & Taylor, L. (2006). Social behavior in amblypygids, and a reassessment of arachnid social patterns. Journal of Arachnology. 33:399-421.Presentations and Activities Costs and Benefits of Group-Living in Social Huntsman Spiders. 2019 Postdoc/Graduate student Symposium on Biological Interactions at the Carneige Institute. June 2019. Carneige Institute of Sciences. Carneige Institute of Sciences, Baltimore, MD. Why science outreach training matters! Invertebrates in Education and Conservation Conference (IECC). August 2018. Terrestrial Invertebrate Taxon Advisory Group (TITAG). Tucson, AZ United States. Physiological and behavioral adaptions for group-living in prolonged subsocial huntsman spiders (Sparassidae) . Entomology 2017: Ignite. Inspire. Innovate.. November 2017. Entomology Society of America. Denver, CO United States. Why is doing informal science outreach good for presenters? June 2017. Singapore National Parks. Singapore, Singapore. Improving Education Through Science Outreach. May 2017. National University of Singapore. Singapore. Costs and benefits of group-living in social huntsman spiders. April 2017. National University of Singapore. Singapore, Singapore. Enhancing STEM Curricula and Engaging More Students To Go Into Teaching In Urban Environments Through Science Outreach. NSF-Noyce Summit. July 2016. NSF. Washington DC. How Habitat and Retreat Limitation Influence Sociality in Prolonged Subsocial Huntsman Spiders. International Congress of Arachnology. July 2016. International Society for Arachnology. Golden, Colorado. Physiological bases of sociality in huntsman spiders. International Congress of Arachnology. July 2016. International Society for Arachnology. Golden, Colorado. 1) Why training in science outreach is a valuable approach to improving undergraduate education, and how a civic engagement approach works. 2) How to develop a successful course that trains undergraduate students how to do effective outreach what works, what doesnt. 3)How to organize a large community outreach event and training students to generate both displays and quality docents. 4) Expections for students doing outreach. Improving Undergraduate Education Through Science Outreach. October 2015. NSF-funded - Sponsored by Naturalist Outreach Program, Sciencenter, Museum of the Earth. Ithaca, NY. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertise4h career explorationsanimal behaviorarachnologyarthropodarthropod behaviorbehaviorbehavioral ecologybiodiversitycommunity engagementcommunity outreach eventcornell cooperative extensioneducationeffective communicationevolution and diversityevolution of social behaviorexperientalexperiential learningimprove communication skillsinformal science educationinsect behaviorinsect science and researchinspiringk-12 stemleadership trainingnaturenys 4hnys fairorganismal biologyphylogenetic relationshipsphysiology and developmentpublic speakingscience educationscience outreach and engagementscientific outreachsensory mechanismsservice-learningsocial evolutionsocialityspiderspider biologyspider biology, arachnids, behavior, evolution, experiential learningspidersstemstem educationsustainabilitytraining effective scientific communication skillsyoutube naturalistoutreach channelGraduate FieldsEntomologyEducationDoctorateUniversity of Kansas1987Bachelor of ArtsUniversity of Colorado1978 PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight Linda Rayor Notables Major international traveling exhibit on Spiders- Linda Rayor Linda Rayor- Bolas spider making egg sac video Hidden housemates: Australias huge and hairy huntsman spiders Educators meet to bolster undergrad STEM outreach 'Pollination' debuts at animal behavior film festival 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
