Laura Harrington | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application ProcessAcademic Statement of Purpose (ASOP) Curriculum vitae (CV) How to contact a faculty member Letters of recommendation Personal Statement Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2019-2020 2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back to top HomePeopleLaura Harrington Laura Harrington Professor 3138 Comstock Hall (607) 255-4475 Email: lch27@cornell.edu Dr. Harrington is currently Professor of Entomology at Cornell University. She earned a PhD in Entomology in 1999 from the University of Massachusetts and completed Postdoctoral training at the University of California at Davis. Professor Harrington became interested in global health issues and vector-borne diseases after living and working for several years in rural Thailand. She contracted both dengue and malaria while living abroad and realized the impact these infections have on children and adults in resource poor nations. Her research focuses on the biology, ecology and behavior of mosquitoes that transmit human diseases. Current research projects in her laboratory address the blood feeding and mating behavior of mosquito vectors of dengue fever, Zika, Chikungunya, West Nile virus and malaria. She also studies human and animal-mosquito interactions and the role of climate change and globalization on emerging vector borne diseases. Dr. Harrington studies mosquito biology in the field locally as well as abroad, with past or present field sites in Thailand, Tanzania, and Mexico. Dr. Harrington has no formal extension appointment, but she is active in extension and outreach activities in New York and the Northeastern United States. She offers courses in Medical and Veterinary Entomology (ENTOM 3520), a non-majors course, Plagues and People (BIO&SOC/ENTOM 2100), she teaches the malaria module of Introduction to Global Health (NS 2060), and she has offered seminars with international service learning formats (ENTOM 4100: Malaria Interventions in Ghana and ENTOM 4110: Health Care in Honduras). Harrington mentors undergraduate and graduate students in the areas of entomology, ecology and evolutionary biology, comparative biomedical sciences, biomathematics, general biology, animal science, and biology and society. Professor Harrington has published more than 80 peer-reviewed articles and 3 scientific book chapters; many of these have focused on the biology and behavior of Aedes disease vectors. Her research has been supported by funding from the National Institutes of Health, Gates foundation, USDA and Centers for Disease Control. More information is available on her website http://blogs.cornell.edu/harrington/ . Research FocusVector biology, behavior and ecology of mosquitoes and ticks, vector borne disease epidemiologyOutreach and Extension FocusAlthough Harrington has no formal extension appointment, she is active in extension and outreach activities in New York and the Northeastern United States. She regularly provides information to media and the public about mosquitoes and vector borne diseases. In addition, Harrington identifies insects for hospitals and the general public. Since 2017, the NEVBD provides outreach and extension efforts in NY State and across the Northeast related to tick and mosquito vectors and vector borne diseases.Teaching FocusHarrington offers courses in Medical and Veterinary Entomology (ENTOM 3520), a non-majors course, Plagues and People (BIO&SOC/ENTOM 2100). Harrington also teaches several courses related to the Center for Excellence including ENTOM 4520 Introduction to Disease Vectors, ENTOM 6530 Control of Disease Vectors and ENTOM 6520: Malaria Biology and Control.Additional Linksresearch, teaching and outreach activities for my lab Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases Awards and HonorsStephen H. Weiss Presidential Fellow (2016) Cornell University Outstanding Alumna Award (2015) North Carolina State UniversityDistinguished Achievement Award in Teaching (2012) Eastern Branch Entomological Society of America Provosts Award for Distinguished Scholarship, Cornell University 2010 (2010) Cornell UniversitySelected PublicationsJournal PublicationsVillarreal, S. M., Winokur, O., & Harrington, L. C. (2017). The Impact of Temperature and Body Size on Fundamental Flight Tone Variation in the Mosquito Vector Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae): Implications for Acoustic Lures. Journal of Medical Entomology. 54:1116-1121.Degner, E. C., & Harrington, L. C. (2016). Polyandry depends on post-mating time interval in the dengue vector Aedes aegypti. The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. 94:780-785.Harrington, L. C., & Ledesma, N. (2015). Fine-scale temperature fluctuation and modulation of Dirofilaria immitis larval development in Aedes aegypti. Veterinary Parasitology. 209:93-100.Hardstone, M., Strycharz, J., Kim, J., Park, I., Yoon, K., Ahn, Y., Harrington, L. C., Lee, S., & Clark, J. (2014). Development of multi-functional metabolic synergists to suppress the evolution of resistance against pyrethroids in insects that blood feed on humans. Pest Management Science. Wang, D., Bowman, D. D., Brown, H., Harrington, L. C., Kaufman, P. E., McKay, T., Nelson, C. T., Sharp, J. L., & Lund, R. (2014). Factors Influencing U.S. Canine Heartworm (Dirofilaria immitis) Prevalence. Parasites and Vectors. 7:264.Guerra, C. A., Reiner, R. C., Perkins, T. A., Lindsay, S. W., Midega, J. T., Brady, O. J., Barker, C. M., Reisen, W. K., Harrington, L. C., Takken, W., Kitron, U., Lloyd, A. L., Hay, S., Scott, T. W., & Smith, D. L. (2014). Global assembly of adult female mosquito mark-release-recapture data to inform the control of mosquito-borne pathogens. Parasites and Vectors. 7:276.Harrington, L. C., Fleisher, A., Ruiz-Moreno, D., Vermeylen, F., Wa, C., Poulson, R. L., Edman, J. D., Clark, J. M., Jones , J. W., Kitthawee, S., & Scott, T. W. (2014). Heterogeneous feeding patterns of the dengue vector, Aedes aegypti, on individual human hosts in rural Thailand. PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases. 8:e3048 .Helinski, M. E., & Harrington, L. C. (2012). The role of male harassment on female fitness for the dengue vector mosquito Aedes aegypti. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology. 66:1131-1140.Ruiz-Moreno, D., Vargas, I. S., Olson, K. E., & Harrington, L. C. (2012). Modeling Dynamic Introduction of Chikungunya Virus in the United States. PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases. 6:e1918.Brown, H. E., Harrington, L. C., Kaufman, P. E., McKay, T., Bowman, D. D., Nelson, C. T., Wang, D., & Lund., R. (2012). Key Factors Influencing Canine Heartworm, Dirofilaria immitis in the United States. Parasites and Vectors. 5:245.Presentations and Activities Vector behavior essential for genetic control. Tropical Infectious Diseases. February 2013. Gordon Conference. Galveston, TX. Mosquito-borne Threats in a Changing World. Public Health Preparedness Conference. January 2013. University of Maryland Center for Health & Homeland Security (CHHS) . Maryland. Movement of Aedes mosquito vectors: considerations and research goals. Research and Policy for Infectious Disease Dynamics (RAPIDD). September 2012. Fogerty Center. California. Vector Competence of US strains of the Asian Tiger Mosquito, Aedes albopictus, for Chikungunya Epidemic Virus (CHIKV 226OYP). American Society for Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. 2011. ASTMH. Philadelphia, PA. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertiseepidemiologyglobal healthmedical and veterinary entomologymedical entomology, global health, vector borne disease, public health, plagues, international healthmosquito and tick biology and disease ecologypublic healthtick bite prevention, tick management, mosquito controlvector borne diseaseGraduate FieldsComparative Biomedical SciencesEcology and Evolutionary BiologyEntomologyEducationDoctorateUniversity of Massachusetts1999Master of ScienceNorth Carolina State University1993 PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight Laura Harrington Notables Harrington Lab end of semester celebration at the Cornell Dairy Bar 05/17/2018! Laura Harrington in Fall 2017 CALS magazine Cornell scientists brief press on Zika virus in D.C. Female gene changes post-sex may lead to mosquito controls Aquadro, Harrington, Nicholson win Weiss fellowships 2021 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
