Sabur H Baidya - J.B. Speed School of Engineering - University of Louisville logowhite logofullcolor googlescholar checkmark_red checkmark_checkmark envelope instagram phone pointer seemore menu chevron_black chevron_blue chevron_red chevron_white contactwatermark coopwatermark relatedwatermark chevron close facebook flickr home linkedin minus pinterest play plus quote search twitter youtube Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Menu Louisville.edu My Accounts Exchange Cardmail Peoplesoft HR Peoplesoft Campus Solutions Peoplesoft Financials Ulink Blackboard UofL Folio Exchange Cardmail Peoplesoft HR Peoplesoft Campus Solutions Peoplesoft Financials Ulink Blackboard UofL Folio Apply Give Search Site Search Select a SiteAll SitesThis Site Enter your search term: Search Close Academics Click to open child links Areas of Study Bachelors & Masters 5 Years Graduate Programs Graduate Online Programs Departments Faculty & Staff Academic Resources Admissions Click to open child links Undergraduate Admissions Graduate & Doctoral Admissions Financial Aid Visit Campus Experience Speed School Click to open child links Student Life Clubs & Organizations Support Services Campus Culture & Diversity Housing & Dining Life in Louisville Outreach Programs Real-World Learning Click to open child links Co-operative Education Design & Innovation Hire Our Students Learning Through Service Research Click to open child links Research Areas Centers & Institutes Service Center Facilities About Click to open child links Our Students History Mission & Values Facts and Figures Our Facilities Administration Organizational Chart Accreditation (overview) Alumni Industrial Board of Advisors Committees Strategic Plan Current Students Faculty & Staff Employers & Partners Alumni Close HomeFacultySabur H BaidyaSabur Baidya Asst Professor Sabur Baidya is a tenure-track Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of J. B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine in 2019 and M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Texas at Dallas in 2013. He directs the Autonomous Intelligent Mobile Systems Lab (AIMS Lab),conducting research in the CSE department in affiliation with Louisville Automation & Robotics Research Institute (LARRI). His research includes autonomous and cyber-physical systems in the Internet-of-things involving sensing, communications and computing systems, developing innovative distributed intelligence using optimizations and data-driven approaches. Prior to joining UofL, Dr. Baidya was a Postdoctoral Scholar in the Jacobs School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California, San Diego. He was also a visiting researcher in the WINLAB at Rutgers University, working on the MobilityFirst future Internet Architecture. He has had research internship experience in Nokia Bell Labs and Huawei Research labs, as well as five years of work experience as a software engineer in Cisco Systems and IBM.EducationB.S. in Communication Engineering, West Bengal University, 2007M.S. in Computer Science, The University of Texas at Dallas, 2013Ph.D. in Computer Science, University California - Irvine, 2019More about Sabur Baidya Awards and Recognition Winner of the People's Choice Award in Graduate Research Symposium, 2018, University of California, IrvineTravel grants for the ACM MobiHoc and ACM SIGMETRICS conferences, 2018, NSF, ACMBest Poster Award in the Computer Science Research Showcase, 2016, University of California, IrvineThird best poster award in Intern Research Showcase, 2016, Huawei Research Labs, CAGraduate Fellowship from Computer Science department, 2014, University of California, IrvineCertificate of Academic Excellence, Computer Science department, 2013, University of Texas at DallasNominated for membership in Golden Key International Honour Society , 2012, University of Texas at Dallas Courses Taught 2021FallCSE 590 - SPECIAL TOPICS - CECSCSE 590 - SPECIAL TOPICS - CECSCSE 693 - INDEP STUDY CECS Sabur Baidya Asst Professor JB Speed School of Engineering shbaid01@louisville.edu Website Visit Apply News Events Careers Alumni Contact Us SHOP University of Louisville 132 Eastern Pkwy., Louisville, Kentucky 40292 502-852-6281 speed@louisville.edu University of Louisville Privacy Statement Emergency
