Damien S Guironnet | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Giving My.CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search Menu Search About Have questions?Need help? Contact Us About Facts and Rankings Diversity History Accreditation Contact Us Calendar Careers Outreach Engineer Guy YouTube Channel Food Drive Admissions Ready to apply?Your path to ChBE begins here. Apply Now Admissions What is Chemical Engineering? Plan Your Visit Course Explorer Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Transfer Students Meet Our Students Graduate Admissions Apply Now Student Life Meet Our Students Academics Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors forSpring 2022. Apply Now! Academics Diversity Student Resources Student Organizations Convocation Undergraduate Program Curriculum Map Scholarships Research Opportunities Research Symposium ABET Accreditation Graduate Program Financial Support Graduate Fellowships Student Advisory Council Research Symposium Research Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. Learn More Research Research Facilities & Services Research Institutes and Collaborations Research Areas Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Engineering News News News Stories Media Mentions Media Contact Mass Transfer ChBE Profiles People Get to know our faculty members. Faculty Profiles People Faculty Awards and Honors Meet Our Faculty Staff Faculty Department Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty Alumni Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine Mass Transfer. Read More Alumni Notable Alumni NAE Members Meet Our Alumni Yearbook Alumni Awards AIChE Reception Homecoming Tailgate Distinguished Alumni Lecture Parr Lecture Giving Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. Make a Gift Giving Give Now Ways to Give Stories of Giving With Illinois Campaign Legacy Fellowship Fund Corporate Partners HomePeople Damien S Guironnet Damien S Guironnet Associate Professor (217) 265-0233 guironne@illinois.edu 121 Roger Adams Laboratory Develops new catalysts and catalytic processes for the synthesis of new polymers with a focus on sustainability. Overview Research Publications Awards For more information Guironnet Research Group Biography Professor Damien Guironnet joined the department in 2014 from BASF Corporation where he worked as a senior research scientist. At Illinois, his research focuses on the challenge of implementing recent advances in homogeneous catalysts into continuous processes. Dr. Guironnet received his MSc from Ecole Nationale Suprieure d'enseignement en Chimie in France in 2005 and his PhD from the University of Constance in Germany in 2009. Education Postdoctorate, University of North Carolina, 2009-2011 Ph.D., University of Constance (Germany), 2009 M.S., Ecole Nationale Suprieur de Chimie de Mulhouse (France), 2005 Academic Positions Assistant Professor, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Other Professional Employment Research Scientist at BASF Corp., 2011-2014 Research Interests Polymer synthesis, organometallic chemistry and catalysis Research Statement The research in our group lies at the interface of polymer science and catalysis. Our approach is multidisciplinary and involves a diverse array of techniques. The impact of our research is expected to fall within the domains of materials science and green chemistry. Overall, we are designing new catalysts and catalytic processes to transform bio-based and oil-based feedstocks into valuable chemicals and to develop new sustainable polymerization techniques. Projects in my group include 1) the development of new processes for the production of important chemicals from abundant raw materials, 2) the design of new methods for the synthesis of end-functionalized and amphiphilic polymers, and 3) the synthesis of new catalysts for the insertion (co)polymerization of polar monomers. For more information Guironnet Research Group Selected Articles in Journals D. J. Walsh, M. G. Hyatt, S. A. Miller, D. Guironnet, Recent Trends in Catalytic Polymerizations, ACS Catalysis, accepted for publication D. J. Walsh; D, Guironnet, Macromolecules with programmable shape, size and chemistry, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A 2019, 116, 1538-1542 M. G. Hyatt, D. J. Walsh, R. L. Lord, J. G. Andino Martinez, D. Guironnet. Mechanistic and Kinetic Studies of the Ring Opening Metathesis Polymerization of Norbornenyl Monomers by Grubbs 3rd Generation Catalyst. J. Am. Chem. Soc, accepted for publication C. Boucher-Jacobs, M. Rabnawaz, J. S. Katz, R. Even, D. Guironnet Encapsulation of Catalyst in Block Copolymer Micelles for the Polymerization of Ethylene in Aqueous Medium Nature Comm. 2018, 9, 841 D. J. Walsh, S. Dutta, C. E. Sing and D. Guironnet, Engineering of Molecular Geometry in Bottlebrush Polymers, Macromolecules 2018, 51, 10167-10173. Honors Young Investigator Award, American Chemical Societys Division of Polymeric Materials: Science and Engineering (PMSE) ( 2019) School of Chemical Sciences Teaching Award (2015-2016) Teaching Honors School of Chemical Sciences Teaching Award (2015-2016) For more information Guironnet Research Group Related News Guironnet named Center for Advanced Study Fellow ACS division names Guironnet a Young Investigator ChBE graduate student selected to present at ACS polymer conference Researchers gain control over soft-molecule synthesis Students awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowships ChBE researchers awarded NSF grant to advance the frontiers of 3-D printing Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Contact Us Chemical and Biochemical Engineering School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052 Email: chbe@illinois.edu Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory Careers Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
