Simon A. Rogers | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Giving My.CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search Menu Search About Have questions?Need help? Contact Us About Facts and Rankings Diversity History Accreditation Contact Us Calendar Careers Outreach Engineer Guy YouTube Channel Food Drive Admissions Ready to apply?Your path to ChBE begins here. Apply Now Admissions What is Chemical Engineering? Plan Your Visit Course Explorer Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Transfer Students Meet Our Students Graduate Admissions Apply Now Student Life Meet Our Students Academics Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors forSpring 2022. Apply Now! Academics Diversity Student Resources Student Organizations Convocation Undergraduate Program Curriculum Map Scholarships Research Opportunities Research Symposium ABET Accreditation Graduate Program Financial Support Graduate Fellowships Student Advisory Council Research Symposium Research Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. Learn More Research Research Facilities & Services Research Institutes and Collaborations Research Areas Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Engineering News News News Stories Media Mentions Media Contact Mass Transfer ChBE Profiles People Get to know our faculty members. Faculty Profiles People Faculty Awards and Honors Meet Our Faculty Staff Faculty Department Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty Alumni Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine Mass Transfer. Read More Alumni Notable Alumni NAE Members Meet Our Alumni Yearbook Alumni Awards AIChE Reception Homecoming Tailgate Distinguished Alumni Lecture Parr Lecture Giving Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. Make a Gift Giving Give Now Ways to Give Stories of Giving With Illinois Campaign Legacy Fellowship Fund Corporate Partners HomePeople Simon A. Rogers Simon A. Rogers Assistant Professor (217) 333-0020 sarogers@illinois.edu 209 Roger Adams Laboratory Investigates the fundamental physics behind time-dependent phenomena exhibited by soft matter under deformation for biomedical, energy, and environment applications. Overview Research Publications Awards For more information Research Synopsis Rogers Research Group Website Biography Simon A. Rogers is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. Dr. Rogers uses experimental and computational tools to understand and model advanced colloidal, polymeric, and self-assembled materials. He joined the department in 2015. He received his BSc in 2001, BSc (Hons) in 2002; and his PhD from Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand in 2011. He completed his postdoctoral research at the Foundation for Research and Technology in Crete, the Jlich Research Center in Germany, and the Center for Neutron Research at the University of Delaware. Education B.Sc. Physics, Victoria University of Wellington B.Sc. (Honors) Physics, Victoria University of Wellington Ph.D. Physics, MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnologies, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand Other Professional Employment Postdoctoral researcher, Institute of Electronic Structure and Laser, Polymer Group, Foundation for Research and Technology, Greece Postdoctoral researcher, Institute of Complex Systems, Soft Condensed Matter, Forschungszentrum Julich, Germany Postdoctoral researcher, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of Delaware Research Interests Colloidal suspensions, polymers, complex fluids, nonlinear rheology and hybrid scattering techniques For more information Research Synopsis Rogers Research Group Website Selected Articles in Journals Yongbeom Seo, Jiayu Leong, Jun Dong Park, Yu-Tong Hong, Sang-Hyon Chu, Cheol Park, Dong Hyun Kim, Yu-Heng Deng, Vitaliy Dushnov, Joonghui Soh, Simon Rogers, Yi Yan Yang, Hyunjoon Kong, Active biofilm removal with self-locomotive bubbling microcleaner ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces, 10 (42), 3568535692 (2018). J. D. Park and S. A. Rogers The transient behavior of soft glassy materials far from equilibrium, Journal of Rheology, 62, 869 (2018). S. A. Rogers Large amplitude oscillatory shear: Simple to describe, hard to interpret, Physics Today, 71 (7), 34 (2018). B. M. Rauzan, S. E. Lehman, J. M. McCracken, J. Lee, X.-M. Lin, A. Sandy, S. Narayanan, S. A. Rogers, and R. G. Nuzzo A Printing-Centric Approach to the Electrostatic Modification of Polymer/Clay Composites for Use in 3D Direct-Ink Writing Advanced Materials Interfaces, 1701579 (2018). C-W. Lee and S. A. Rogers A sequence of physical processes quantified in LAOS by continuous local measures, Korea-Australia Rheology Journal 29(4), 269-279 (2017). S. A. Rogers, In search of physical meaning: defining transient parameters for nonlinear viscoelasticity, Rheologica Acta 5(56), 501-525 (2017). O. Korculanin, D. Hermida-Merino, H. Hirsemann, B. Struth, S. A. Rogers, and M. P. Lettinga, Anomalous structural response of nematic colloidal platelets subjected to Large Amplitude Stress Oscillations, Physics of Fluids 29, 023102 (2017). M. J. Armstrong, A. N. Beris, S. A. Rogers, N. J. Wagner Dynamic shear rheology and structure kinetics modeling of a thixotropic carbon black suspension, Rheologica Acta 56, 811-824 (2017). M. A. Calabrese, S. A. Rogers, L. Porcar, and N. J. Wagner, Understanding steady and dynamic shear banding in a model wormlike micellar solution, Journal of Rheology 60, 1001 (2016). M. A. Calabrese, N. J. Wagner, and S. A. Rogers An optimized protocol for the analysis of time-resolved elastic scattering experiments, Soft Matter, 12, 2301-2308, (2016). M. A. Calabrese, S. A. Rogers, R. P. Murphy, and N. J. Wagner, The rheology and microstructure of branched micelles under shear, Journal of Rheology 59, 1299 (2015). . A. Rogers, M. A. Calabrese, and N. J. Wagner Advances in measuring time-resolved neutron scattering from flowing complex fluids. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Center for Neutron Research 2014 Annual Report, 50, January (2015). S. A. Rogers, M. A. Calabrese, and N. J. Wagner, Rheology of branched wormlike micelles, Current Opinion in Colloid & Interface Science 19, 530-535 (2014). R. P. Murphy, E. G. Kelley, S. A. Rogers, M. O. Sullivan, and T. H. Epps, III, Unlocking chain exchange in highly amphiphilic block polymer micellar systems: influence of agitation, ACS Macro Letters 3, 1106-1111 (2014). M. Lisicki, B. Cichocki, S. A. Rogers, J. K. G. Dhont, and P. R. Lang, Translational and rotational near-wall diffusion of spherical colloids studied by evanescent wave scattering, Soft Matter 10, 4312-4323 (2014). R. Pasquino, T. C. Vasilakopoulos, Y. C. Jeong, H. Lee, S. Rogers, G. Sakellariou, J. Allgaier, A. Takano, A. R. Brs, T. Chang, S. Gooen, W. Pyckhout-Hintzen, A. Wishnewski, N. Hadjichristidis, D. Richter, M. Rubenstein, and D. Vlassopoulos, Viscosity of ring polymer melts, ACS Macro Letters 2, 874-878, (2013). Honors National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2019) New Investigator Award, ACS, Petroleum Research Fund (2018) Second place prize for post-doc poster competition (2013) Bingham Fluid Medal for outstanding conference contribution (2011) Award for outstanding young researcher oral presentation (2011) Second place prize for student and post-doc poster competition (2011) Marie Curie Host Fellowship for the Transfer of Knowledge (2009) Award for outstanding oral presentation (2008) MacDiarmid Young Scientist of the Year: Runner-up, Future Science and Technologies (2007) For more information Research Synopsis Rogers Research Group Website Related News Unified theory explains how materials transform from solids to liquids Graduate student wins research award from Neutron Scattering Society Researchers unveil how soft materials react to deformation at molecular level ChBE Professor Simon Rogers earns NSF CAREER Award Researchers develop microbubble scrubber to destroy toxic biofilms High school girls discover ChBE during GAMES Camp Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Contact Us Chemical and Biochemical Engineering School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052 Email: chbe@illinois.edu Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory Careers Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
