William S Hammack | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Giving My.CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search Menu Search About Have questions?Need help? Contact Us About Facts and Rankings Diversity History Accreditation Contact Us Calendar Careers Outreach Engineer Guy YouTube Channel Food Drive Admissions Ready to apply?Your path to ChBE begins here. Apply Now Admissions What is Chemical Engineering? Plan Your Visit Course Explorer Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Transfer Students Meet Our Students Graduate Admissions Apply Now Student Life Meet Our Students Academics Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors forSpring 2022. Apply Now! Academics Diversity Student Resources Student Organizations Convocation Undergraduate Program Curriculum Map Scholarships Research Opportunities Research Symposium ABET Accreditation Graduate Program Financial Support Graduate Fellowships Student Advisory Council Research Symposium Research Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. Learn More Research Research Facilities & Services Research Institutes and Collaborations Research Areas Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Engineering News News News Stories Media Mentions Media Contact Mass Transfer ChBE Profiles People Get to know our faculty members. Faculty Profiles People Faculty Awards and Honors Meet Our Faculty Staff Faculty Department Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty Alumni Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine Mass Transfer. Read More Alumni Notable Alumni NAE Members Meet Our Alumni Yearbook Alumni Awards AIChE Reception Homecoming Tailgate Distinguished Alumni Lecture Parr Lecture Giving Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. Make a Gift Giving Give Now Ways to Give Stories of Giving With Illinois Campaign Legacy Fellowship Fund Corporate Partners HomePeople William S Hammack William S Hammack William H. and Janet G. Lycan Professor (217) 244-4146 whammack@illinois.edu 99 Roger Adams Laboratory Overview Research Publications Awards For more information Bill's video work & audio archive Biography Bill Hammack is a Professor of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Illinois, where he has pioneered new and novel approaches to engineering outreach. He is the creator and host of the popular YouTube channel engineerguyvideo. From 1999 to 2006 he created a groundbreaking series of over 200 pieces for public radio that described what engineers do, why they do it and how. His outreach work has been recognized by The National Association of Science Writers Science in Society Award; the American Chemical Societys Grady-Stack Medal, and the American Institute of Physics Science Writing Award. His books include Michael Faradays The Chemical History of a Candle with Lectures, Teaching Guides and Student Activities (2016), Why Engineers Need to Grow a Long Tail (2011), How Engineers Create the World (2012), Eight Amazing Engineering Stories (2012), and Albert Michelsons Harmonic Analyzer (2014). Education Ph.D, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 1988 M.S., University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 1986 B.S., Michigan Technological University, 1984 Research Interests Public Outreach and Engineering Literacy For more information Bill's video work & audio archive Books Authored or Co-Authored (Original Editions) Why Engineers Need to Grow a Long Tail: A primer on using new media to inform the public and create the next generation of innovative engineers (2010) How Engineers Create the World: The Public Radio Commentaries of Bill Hammack (2011) Michael Faradays The Chemical History of a Candle with Lectures, Teaching Guides and Student Activities. The companion book to the YouTube video series by Bill Hammack and Don DeCoste. Honors Hoover Medal, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 2020 Ralph Coats Roe Medal, American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), 2020 Carl Sagan Award for the Public Appreciation of Science, Council of Scientific Society Presidents (CSSP), 2019 First Prize Video Science Online 2011 Fellow, American Physical Society, 2009 Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 2008 Jefferson Fellow, United States Department of State, 2005-2006 Science Writing Award in Broadcast Media, American Institute of Physics, 2004 Award for Distinguished Literary Contributions Furthering the Public Understanding of the Profession, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , 2004 James T. Grady - James H. Stack Award for Interpreting Chemistry for the Public, American Chemical Society, 2004 Silver Reel for National News & Commentary, The National Federation of Community Broadcasters, 2003 The President's Award, American Society for Engineering Education, 2003 Science in Society Award, National Association of Science Writers, 2002 Service to Society Award, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2002 Edwin F. Church Medal, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 2002 Excellence in Teaching Award, School of Chemical Sciences, University of Illinois, UC, 2001 The Advisor's List - top 10% of advisors in the College of Engineering, University of Illinois, UC, 1999 Teacher/Scholar Award, The Camille & Henry Dreyfus Foundation, 1993 ACS/Exxon Fellowship in Solid State Chemistry, American Chemical Society, 1992 For more information Bill's video work & audio archive Related News AIChE recognizes Bill Hammack with honors ceremony, Baron Peters and Saket Bhargava with invited talks Hammack awarded Hoover Medal ChBE celebrates investitures of Professors Baron Peters and Bill Hammack Mechanical engineering society selects Hammack for Roe Medal Professor Bill Hammack receives Carl Sagan Award for the Public Appreciation of Science Baron Peters and Bill Hammack named Lycan Professors Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Contact Us Chemical and Biochemical Engineering School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052 Email: chbe@illinois.edu Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory Careers Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
