Jonathan J. L. Higdon | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Giving My.CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search Menu Search About Have questions?Need help? Contact Us About Facts and Rankings Diversity History Accreditation Contact Us Calendar Careers Outreach Engineer Guy YouTube Channel Food Drive Admissions Ready to apply?Your path to ChBE begins here. Apply Now Admissions What is Chemical Engineering? Plan Your Visit Course Explorer Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Transfer Students Meet Our Students Graduate Admissions Apply Now Student Life Meet Our Students Academics Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors forSpring 2022. Apply Now! Academics Diversity Student Resources Student Organizations Convocation Undergraduate Program Curriculum Map Scholarships Research Opportunities Research Symposium ABET Accreditation Graduate Program Financial Support Graduate Fellowships Student Advisory Council Research Symposium Research Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. Learn More Research Research Facilities & Services Research Institutes and Collaborations Research Areas Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Engineering News News News Stories Media Mentions Media Contact Mass Transfer ChBE Profiles People Get to know our faculty members. Faculty Profiles People Faculty Awards and Honors Meet Our Faculty Staff Faculty Department Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty Alumni Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine Mass Transfer. Read More Alumni Notable Alumni NAE Members Meet Our Alumni Yearbook Alumni Awards AIChE Reception Homecoming Tailgate Distinguished Alumni Lecture Parr Lecture Giving Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. Make a Gift Giving Give Now Ways to Give Stories of Giving With Illinois Campaign Legacy Fellowship Fund Corporate Partners HomePeople Jonathan J. L. Higdon Jonathan J. L. Higdon Dennis and Cathy Houston Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (217) 333-1479 jhigdon@illinois.edu 195 Roger Adams Laboratory Investigates geophysical fluid dynamics associated with evolution of meandering rivers; develops simulations for large scale systems of hyperbolic partial differential equations for petroleum reservoirs and geophysical transport processes; and investigates the micro-scale dynamics of complex fluids. Overview Research Publications Awards For more information Research Synopsis Biography Jonathan J.L. Higdon is the Dennis and Cathy Houston Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. An award winning teacher and scholar, Dr. Higdon is a leader in the field of fluid mechanics. His research interests include computational fluid dynamics, the mechanics of complex fluids, geophysical fluid dynamics, and petroleum reservoir simulation. Dr. Higdon joined the department in 1980. He received his BES and MSE from The Johns Hopkins University and his PhD in Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics from Cambridge University, where he was a Winston Churchill Scholar and a National Science Foundation Fellow. He completed his postdoctoral studies at Stanford University. Education Ph.D., Cambridge University, 1978 M.S.E., Johns Hopkins University, 1975 B.E.S., Johns Hopkins University, 1975 Research Interests Fluid Mechanics and Computational Algorithms For more information Research Synopsis Selected Articles in Journals A. Kumar and J. J. L. Higdon, "Origins of the anomalous stress behavior in charged colloidal suspensions under shear," Physical Review E, 82, 051401 (2010). S. L. Perry, J. J. L. Higdon and P. J. A. Kenis, "Design rules for pumping and metering of highly viscous fluids in microfluidics," Lab on a Chip, 10, 3112-3124 (2010). Q.J. Meng and J.J.L. Higdon, "Large scale dynamic simulation of plate-like particle suspensions. Part II: Brownian simulation," Journal of Rheology, 52, 37-65 (2008). Q.J. Meng and J.J.L. Higdon, "Large scale dynamic simulation of plate-like particle suspensions. Part I: Non-Brownian simulation," Journal of Rheology, 52, 1-36 (2008). P. Dimitrakopoulos and J. J. L. Higdon, "On the displacement of fluid bridges from solid surfaces in viscous pressure-driven flows," Phys. Fluids. 15:3255 (2003). D. R. Graham and J. J. L. Higdon, "Acoustic stimulation of flow through porous media, Part 2. Unsteady flow." J. Fluid Mech. 465:237-260 (2002). D. R. Graham and J. J. L. Higdon, "Acoustic stimulation of flow through porous media, Part 1. Steady flow." J. Fluid Mech. 465:213-235 (2002). P. Dimitrakopoulos and J. J. L. Higdon, "Displacement of three dimensional fluid droplets from solid surfaces in viscous pressure-driven flows", 435:327-350, J. Fluid Mech. (2001). D. R. Graham and J. J. L. Higdon, "Oscillatory flow of droplets in capillary tubes. Part 2. Constricted tubes." J. Fluid Mech. 425:55-77 (2000). D. R. Graham and J. J. L. Higdon, "Oscillatory flow of droplets in capillary tubes. Part 1. Straight tubes." J. Fluid Mech. 425:31-53 (2000). Honors Stanley Corrsin Lectureship in Fluid Dynamics, Johns Hopkins University, 1993 Prokasy Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, University of Illinois, UC, 1988 Presidential Young Investigator Award, National Science Foundation, 1984 For more information Research Synopsis Related News October event to celebrate the legacy of Professor Thomas J. Hanratty Higdon invested as inaugural Dennis and Cathy Houston Professor Investiture planned for Professor Jonathan Higdon, to be named Dennis and Cathy Houston Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Professor Jonathan Higdon named Dennis and Cathy Houston Professor in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Contact Us Chemical and Biochemical Engineering School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052 Email: chbe@illinois.edu Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory Careers Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
