Edmund G Seebauer | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Giving My.CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search Menu Search About Have questions?Need help? Contact Us About Facts and Rankings Diversity History Accreditation Contact Us Calendar Careers Outreach Engineer Guy YouTube Channel Food Drive Admissions Ready to apply?Your path to ChBE begins here. Apply Now Admissions What is Chemical Engineering? Plan Your Visit Course Explorer Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Transfer Students Meet Our Students Graduate Admissions Apply Now Student Life Meet Our Students Academics Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors forSpring 2022. Apply Now! Academics Diversity Student Resources Student Organizations Convocation Undergraduate Program Curriculum Map Scholarships Research Opportunities Research Symposium ABET Accreditation Graduate Program Financial Support Graduate Fellowships Student Advisory Council Research Symposium Research Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. Learn More Research Research Facilities & Services Research Institutes and Collaborations Research Areas Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Engineering News News News Stories Media Mentions Media Contact Mass Transfer ChBE Profiles People Get to know our faculty members. Faculty Profiles People Faculty Awards and Honors Meet Our Faculty Staff Faculty Department Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty Alumni Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine Mass Transfer. Read More Alumni Notable Alumni NAE Members Meet Our Alumni Yearbook Alumni Awards AIChE Reception Homecoming Tailgate Distinguished Alumni Lecture Parr Lecture Giving Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. Make a Gift Giving Give Now Ways to Give Stories of Giving With Illinois Campaign Legacy Fellowship Fund Corporate Partners HomePeople Edmund G Seebauer Edmund G Seebauer James W. Westwater Professor EmeritusJames W. Westwater Professor (217) 244-9214 eseebaue@illinois.edu 114 Roger Adams Laboratory Overview Research Publications Awards For more information Seebauer Group website Research Synopsis Biography Edmund G. Seebauer is the James W. Westwater Professor Emeritus in Chemical Engineering. He has received a Sloan Research Fellowship in Chemistry and an Inventor Recognition Award from Semiconductor Research Corporation, and is currently a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the American Physical Society and the American Vacuum Society. He has roughly 200 journal and conference publications, four patents, and two books on charged defects in semiconductors as well as engineering ethics. He served six years until 2011 as head of the department, and subsequently as a special-assignment associate provost until 2014 focusing on international academic programs. In 2000-2001 he received a Fellowship for Study in a Second Discipline Fellowship at Illinois, with a focus on philosophical ethics. He continues to write and lecture publicly on ethics in science and engineering. Education Postdoctorate, Sandia National Laboratories, 1987 Ph.D., University of Minnesota, 1986 B.S., University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 1983 Academic Positions Provost Fellow (International Academic Programs), 2011-2014 Department Head, University of Illinois, UC, 2006-2011 Interim Department Head, University of Illinois, UC, 2005-2006 James W. Westwater Professor, University of Illinois, UC, 2006- Research Interests Engineering of Semiconductor Defects for Nanoscale Devices Research Statement Engineering of Semiconductor Defects for Nanoscale Devices Research in this group focuses on controlling the behavior of atomic-scale defects in semiconducting materials to make nanoscale devices of interest in energy, environmental, and microelectronics applications. Despite the harmful sound of defect, such species can actually be beneficial for semiconductor properties. For example, controlled substitution of dopant atoms for host atoms in a semiconductor (as substitutional defects) is absolutely essential for the operation of microelectronic devices. Our work aims at defect engineering seeks to manipulate the identities of the majority defects in semiconductors as well as their concentrations, spatial distribution, and mobility. We have discovered two new physical mechanisms to accomplish this control that work particularly well at the nanoscale. The mechanisms include saturation of dangling bonds at a surface and photostimulation. Our work employs both experiments and computations to develop this fundamental science base, while simultaneously applying the findings to practical applications. The principles of defect engineering can be employed for semiconductors such as metal oxides used in catalysts for energy applications. In fuel cells, for example, metals supported on semiconducting oxides such as Pt/Co2O3 and Pd/V2O5 are known to be among the best catalysts for cathodes and anodes, respectively. Noble metals on semiconducting oxides can be used for generating hydrogen from water using sunlight. Active metal particles are often very small sometimes only a few nanometers in diameter. The activity can be strongly influenced by defects near the semiconductor surface. Thus, we view these systems as nanoscale semiconductor devices whose behavior can be tailored through control of the defects. This approach provides a new way to create novel catalyst structures with improved activity and selectivity. Defect engineering also finds use in environmental catalysis applications. For example, vanadia (V2O5) supported on titania (TiO2) is the best material for selective catalytic reduction of dangerous nitric oxides to nitrogen by ammonia in combustion exhausts. Titania has many existing and potential uses in water cleanup by photocatalysis, as well as in self-cleaning coatings. One factor that limits the efficiency of such catalysts is unwanted defects that destroy the useful photoelectrons. Defect engineering to remove the unwanted defects permits higher efficiency. For more information Seebauer Group website Research Synopsis Books Authored or Co-Authored (Original Editions) Edmund G. Seebauer and Meredith C. Kratzer, Charged Semiconductor Defects: Structure, Thermodynamics and Diffusion (Springer, London, 2009), 294 pp. Edmund G. Seebauer and Robert L. Barry, Fundamentals of Ethics for Scientists and Engineers (Oxford Univ. Press, New York, 2001), 270 pp. With instruction manual, 180 pp. Chapters in Books Edmund G. Seebauer, Fundamentals of Ethics: The Use of Virtues, Practical Ethics for the Food Professional, ed. J. Peter Clark and Christopher Ritson (Wiley-Blackwell, 2013) Ch. 1. Edmund G. Seebauer and Kyong Wook Noh, Trends in Semiconductor Defect Engineering at the Nanoscale, Materials Science & Engineering R, 70 (2010) 151-168. Selected Articles in Journals Navaneetha K. Nandakumar and Edmund G. Seebauer, Manipulating Reaction Rates of Metal-Oxide Heterogeneous Catalysts via Semiconductor Heterojunctions, J. Phys. Chem. C, 122 (2018) 1665516663. 171. Kandis Leslie Gilliard-AbdulAziz and Edmund G. Seebauer, Microkinetic Model for Reaction and Diffusion of Oxygen Interstitial Atoms near a TiO2(110) Surface, Appl. Surf. Sci., 470 (2019) 854-860. 172. Heonjae Jeong, Edmund G. Seebauer and Elif Ertekin, Fermi Level Dependence of Gas-Solid Oxygen Defect Exchange Mechanism on TiO2(110) by First Principles Calculations, J. Chem. Phys., 153 (2020) 124710. 173. Heonjae Jeong, Elif Ertekin and Edmund G. Seebauer, Kinetic Control of Oxygen Interstitial Interaction with TiO2(110) via the Surface Fermi Energy, Langmuir, 36 (2020) 12632-12648. 174. Heonjae Jeong, Elif Ertekin and Edmund G. Seebauer, Creation and Destruction of Oxygen Interstitial Atoms by Nonpolar Zinc Oxide( ) Surfaces, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 23 (2021) 16423-16435. Honors Fellow, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2011 Fellow, American Physical Society, 2008 Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 2007 James W. Westwater Professor, University of Illinois, UC, 2006- Distinguished Lecturer, Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 2004-2006 Beckman Associate, Center for Advanced Study, 2004-2005 Fellow, American Vacuum Society, 2001 Fellow, Study in a Second Discipline (Philosophy), University of Illinois, UC, 2000 Inventor Recognition Award, Semiconductor Research Corporation, 1995 (1995) Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow (Chemistry), 1994 (1994) Presidential Young Investigator Award, National Science Foundation, 1988 (1988) Teaching Honors DuPont Young Faculty Award, 1989 Dow Teaching Excellence Award, 1988 For more information Seebauer Group website Research Synopsis Related News Through SRI Funding, Illinois "Dream Team" Finding Energy Solutions Department pilots innovative undergraduate curriculum program Kenis named new department head, Seebauer steps into role of provost fellow Edmund Seebauer elected Fellow, AIChE Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Contact Us Chemical and Biochemical Engineering School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052 Email: chbe@illinois.edu Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory Careers Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
