Alex Mironenko | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Giving My.CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search Menu Search About Have questions?Need help? Contact Us About Facts and Rankings Diversity History Accreditation Contact Us Calendar Careers Outreach Engineer Guy YouTube Channel Food Drive Admissions Ready to apply?Your path to ChBE begins here. Apply Now Admissions What is Chemical Engineering? Plan Your Visit Course Explorer Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Transfer Students Meet Our Students Graduate Admissions Apply Now Student Life Meet Our Students Academics Now hiring Classroom Assistants and Tutors forSpring 2022. Apply Now! Academics Diversity Student Resources Student Organizations Convocation Undergraduate Program Curriculum Map Scholarships Research Opportunities Research Symposium ABET Accreditation Graduate Program Financial Support Graduate Fellowships Student Advisory Council Research Symposium Research Check out our latest breakthroughs to shape a healthier and more sustainable world. Learn More Research Research Facilities & Services Research Institutes and Collaborations Research Areas Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Engineering News News News Stories Media Mentions Media Contact Mass Transfer ChBE Profiles People Get to know our faculty members. Faculty Profiles People Faculty Awards and Honors Meet Our Faculty Staff Faculty Department Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Affiliate Faculty Alumni Check out the latest issue of our alumni magazine Mass Transfer. Read More Alumni Notable Alumni NAE Members Meet Our Alumni Yearbook Alumni Awards AIChE Reception Homecoming Tailgate Distinguished Alumni Lecture Parr Lecture Giving Invest in the future of chemical engineering. Support our faculty and students. Make a Gift Giving Give Now Ways to Give Stories of Giving With Illinois Campaign Legacy Fellowship Fund Corporate Partners HomePeople Alex Mironenko Alex Mironenko Assistant Professor (217) 244-8458 alexmir@illinois.edu 209B Roger Adams Laboratory Develops theoretical methods to facilitate high-fidelity computational predictions of heterogeneous catalysts and reaction mechanisms for renewable energy and chemicals production, using principles of quantum mechanics. Overview Research Publications Awards For more information Research Synopsis Biography Dr. Mironenko joined the University of Illinois Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering in 2020 as an assistant professor. After obtaining his Ph.D. degree in 2018 from the University of Delaware, he joined the Voth group at the University of Chicago as a Kadanoff-Rice Postdoctoral Fellow. He is working on developing bottom-up approaches to constructing reactive force fields. At the University of Delaware, he worked on multiscale modeling of chemical reactions on heterogeneous catalyst surfaces for chemicals production from renewable, biomass-derived feedstocks. Two key Ph.D. accomplishments include (1) the discovery of a trifunctional reaction mechanism of furfural conversion to the platform chemical 2-methyl furan on reducible metal oxide catalysts and (2) the development of a hybrid-type, DFT+U-inspired, nonempirical density functional that holds promise to improve predictions of energetics, geometries, and surface reactivities of molecules, metals, and metal oxides at low extra computational cost. Education Kadanoff-Rice Postdoctoral Scholar, Department of Chemistry, University of Chicago, 2018-2020 PhD Chemical Engineering, University of Delaware, 2018 MS Chemical Engineering, University of Kansas, 2012 Diploma of Engineer, Chemical Engineering, Omsk F.M. Dostoevsky State University, Russia, 2009 Research Interests Quantum Mechanics Chemical Production Renewable Energy Reaction Mechanisms Heterogeneous Catalysts Theoretical Methods Research Statement Mironenko's research focuses on developing comprehensive theoretical models of a catalytic site and its surrounding environment using novel methods, based on principles of quantum mechanics. For more information Research Synopsis Selected Articles in Journals Goulas, K. A.*; Mironenko, A. V.*; Jenness, G. R.; Mazal, T.; and Vlachos, D. G. Fundamentals of C-O Bond Activation on Metal Oxide Catalysts. Nature Catalysis, 2019, 2, 269-276 *Equal contribution Mironenko, A. V.; Vlachos, D. G. Conjugation-Driven Reverse Mars-van Krevelen-Type Radical Mechanism for Low-Temperature C-O Bond Activation. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 2016, 138(26), 8104-8113 Luo, J.*; Yun H.*; Mironenko, A. V.*; Goulas, K.; Lee, J. D.; Monai, M.; Wang, C.; Vorotnikov, V.; Murray,C. B.; Vlachos, D. G.; Fornasiero, P.; and Gorte, R. G. Mechanisms for High Selectivity in theHydrodeoxygenation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural over PtCo Nanocrystals. ACS Catalysis, 2016, 6 (7), 4095-4104 *Equal contribution Mironenko, A. V.; Gilkey, M. J.; Panagiotopoulou, P.; Facas, G.; Vlachos, D. G.; and Xu, B. Ring Activation of Furanic Compounds on Ruthenium-Based Catalysts. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C, 2015, 119(11), 6075-6085 Wang, C.; Mironenko, A. V.; Raizada A.; Chen, T.; Mao, X.; Padmanabhan, A.; Vlachos, D. G.; Gorte, R. J.; and Vohs, J. M. Mechanistic Study of the Direct Hydrodeoxygenation of m-Cresol over WOx-decorated Pt/C Catalysts. ACS Catalysis, 2018, 8(9), 7749-7759 Lansford, J. L.; Mironenko, A. V.; and Vlachos, D. G. Scaling Relationships and Theory for Vibrational Frequencies of Adsorbates on Transition Metal Surfaces. Nature Communications, 2017, 8(1), 1842 Gilkey, M. J.; Mironenko, A. V.; Vlachos, D. G.; Xu, B. Adipic Acid Production via Metal-Free Selective Hydrogenolysis of Biomass-Derived Tetrahydrofuran-2,5-Dicarboxylic Acid. ACS Catalysis, 2017, 7, 6619-6634 Gilkey, M. J.; Mironenko, A. V.; Yang, L.; Vlachos, D. G.; Xu, B. Insights into the Ring Opening of Biomass-Derived Furanics over Carbon-Supported Ruthenium. ChemSusChem, 2016, 9(21), 3113-3121 Gilkey, M. J.; Panagiotopoulou, P.; Mironenko, A. V.; Jenness, G. R.; Vlachos, D. G.; and Xu, B. Mechanistic Insights into Metal-Lewis Acid Mediated Catalytic Transfer Hydrogenation of Furfural to 2-Methylfuran. ACS Catalysis, 2015, 5(7), 3988-3994 Honors Allan P. Colburn Outstanding Dissertation Prize in Mathematical and Engineering Sciences (2019) Kadanoff-Rice Postdoctoral Fellowship (2018-2020) William Fulbright Fellowship, Masters Program at the University of Kansas (2010-2012) Saurabh A. Palkar Graduate Award for Mentoring (2018) Achievement Award, Energy Frontier Research Center, Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, for theoretical insights into complex reaction mechanisms of biomass upgrade (2016) AIChE Catalysis and Reaction Engineering Division Travel Award (2016) Theodore A. Koch Award (Catalysis Club of Philadelphia) to attend the Car-Parrinello Molecular Dynamics Conference at University of Chicago (2016) Richard J. Kokes Award for the 24th North American Catalysis Society meeting (2015) FOMMS Travel Award for the Conference on Foundations of Molecular Modeling and Simulation (2014) For more information Research Synopsis Related News Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Get In Touch Contact Us Chemical and Biochemical Engineering School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 114 Roger Adams Laboratory, MC-712 600 South Mathews Avenue Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-3640 | F: (217) 333-5052 Email: chbe@illinois.edu Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory Careers Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
