Health and Wellness | Campus Life Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San Jos State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Campus Life Health and Wellness Campus Life Health and Wellness Treat Yourself Well Taking care of your health and wellnessis critical to student academic success. Wellness is about more than staying fit or reducing stress. At SJSU, the campus community works together to ensure that students can take care of all dimensions of wellness: physical, social, emotional, occupational, multicultural, environmental, spiritual and intellectual. A Healthy Campus Wellness Lounge Enjoy the Wellness Lounge and educational services focusing on comprehensive wellness such as nutrition, relaxation, violence prevention and more. Its purpose is to help you thrive. SpartanRecreation How do you like to sweat? From whitewater rafting to Quidditch to yoga classes, Spartan Recreation will help you get your heart rate upand have a blast. StudentOrganizations Find your place among 30,000+ Spartans with nearly 450 recognized student organizations at San Jose State ranging from cultural groups and Greek life to hundreds of special interest groups. Taking the Healthy Campus Pledge San Jose State has joined nearly 50 other colleges and universities in the U.S. and Canada by taking the Healthy Campus Pledge. We are the first in the CSU system and our region to take the official pledge, presenting an opportunity to provide leadership in moving other college campuses toward better health. Health and Wellness Services StudentHealth Center SJSU's StudentHealth Center provides convenient access to medical care for students. In addition to treating acute conditions, injuries and illnesses, the center offers: family planning programs, in-house licensed pharmacy, physical therapy department, federally certified high complexity laboratory, and X-ray department. Counseling and Psychological Services Everyone needs a little help sometimes. Personal and educational counselors are available within the Student Wellness Center to assist you in times of need through individual counseling, training and life skills workshops. Accessible Education Center The Accessible Education Center (AEC) works closely with almost every department and program on campus to empower and ensure access to students and employees with disabilities. SJSU Cares There is a community of Spartans ready to offer assistance to students dealing with situations and issues outside of the classroom that may take away from academic success. SJSU Cares assists students experiencing unforeseen economic crisis, food and housing insecurities. Footer San Jos State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington SquareSan Jos, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Oct 9, 2020
