Wei Wu | NYU Shanghai Jump to navigation Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Visitors Media Search form Search Login All NYU About subsections Who We Are Vision, Values, and Mission Leadership Our Faculty News and Publications Our Campus Contact Us Support Us quick links Work Here Commencement NYU Shanghai Foundation Compliance Reporting Line Public Safety Policies and Guidelines Sustainability Admissions subsections Admissions Overview Undergraduate Graduate Visiting Students quick links Tuition and Fees Study Abroad in Shanghai Academics subsections Undergraduate Studies Graduate and Advanced Education Other Academic Programs Office of the Registrar Library Bills, Payments and Refunds quick links Our Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Support and Tutoring Academic Advising Registration Academic Technology Portal Study Abroad in Shanghai Technology Services Work Here Research subsections Research at NYU Shanghai quick links Research News Research Events Centers and Institutes Resources Research Opportunities Grant Opportunities Research during COVID-19 Student Life subsections Student Life Overview New Student and Diversity Programs Residential Life and Housing Activities & Community Engagement Athletics and Fitness Diversity Initiatives Career Development Health and Wellness Community Standards & Resources quick links Community Standards Emergency Support Commencement Blogs Technology Services Return to Campus 2020 NYU Around the World New York Shanghai Abu Dhabi Accra Berlin Buenos Aires Florence London Madrid Paris Prague Sydney Tel Aviv Washington Schools Arts and Science College of Arts and Science College of Dentistry College of Global Public Health Rory Meyers College of Nursing Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences Gallatin School of Individualized Study Graduate School of Arts and Science Institute of Fine Arts Institute for the Study of the Ancient World Leonard N. Stern School of Business Liberal Studies Program Robert F. Wagner Graduate School School of Law School of Medicine School of Professional Studies Silver School of Social Work Steinhardt School Tandon School of Engineering Tisch School of the Arts Gateways Students FacultyFaculty Directory Faculty Portal Open Positions Workday Teaching Resources FAQs - Working at Zhongbei How to Apply Parents News Gazette Fall 2021 Elective Courses Open to Class of 2025 You are hereHome Academic Life Our Faculty Wei Wu Wei Wu Wei Wu Associate Professor of Mathematics Email ww44@nyu.edu Dr. Wei Wu is an Associate Professor of Mathematics at NYU Shanghai. Before joining NYU Shanghai,he held academic positions at the Courant Institute, New York University and at the University of Warwick. He works in probability, mathematicalphysics and partial differential equations,especially in Gibbs random fields, spin models,phase transitions and homogenization.Select PublicationsMassless Phases for the Villain model ind 3, with P. Dario, submittedC2regularity of the surface tension for theinterface model, with S. Armstrong, submittedMaximum for Ginzburg-Landau fields, with D. Belius, to appear,Annals of ProbabilityFour dimensional loop-erased random walk, with G. Lawler and X. Sun,Annals of Probability2019, Vol. 47, No. 6Critical Percolation and the Minimal Spanning Tree in Slabs, with C. Newman and V. Tassion,Communications on Pure and Applied Math, Volume 70, Issue 11, (2017)EducationPhD, Applied MathBrown UniversityBSc, PhysicsFudanUniversity Research Interests Probability Mathematical Physics Portal Campuses New York Shanghai Abu Dhabi Get in Touch Contact Us Campus Tour Jobs Quicklinks Students Accessibility Website Feedback Connect with NYU Shanghai ICP15010846-2 31011502017015 2021 All rights reserved.
