Robert V. Kohn Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Robert V. Kohn Silver Professor of Mathematics kohn@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3217 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 502 http://math.nyu.edu/faculty/kohn/ Education Ph.D., Mathematics, Princeton University, USA, 1979. M.Sc., Mathematics, University of Warwick, UK, 1975. A.B., Mathematics, Harvard University, USA, 1974. Research Interests I work in nonlinear partial differential equations and the calculus of variations. Much of my work concerns problems from physics and materials science. One current theme is the study of elastic-energy-driven pattern formation in thin elastic sheets; this work brings a variational perspective to phenomena such as wrinkling, folding, and delamination. It is of course a familiar fact that thin sheets often wrinkle or fold: our skin wrinkles and our clothes wrinkle; leaves, flowers, and hanging drapes have folds. Physical experiments in controlled settings can quantify such phenomena, and numerical simulations can demonstrate within a model how the patterns develop. But neither experiment nor simulation can tell us "why" a system chooses a particular pattern. My variational perspective (applied in recent work with Jacob Bedrossian, Peter Bella, Jeremy Brandman, and Hoai-Minh Nguyen) provides a valuable complement to other methods, by showing that elastic energy minimization requires certain types of patterns. A rather different theme involves prediction with expert advice -- a widely used paradigm for machine learning. Here nonlinear partial differential equations arise by considering continuum limits and taking advantage of analogies with optimal control. A current project with Kangping Zhu applies this viewpoint to the "stock prediction problem" -- a model problem involving prediction of a binary sequence -- using ideas from my 2006 work with Sylvia Serfaty on motion by curvature. Selected Publications P. Bella and R.V. Kohn, "Wrinkles as the result of compressive stresses in an annular thin film", Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics 67, 693-747 (2014) R.V. Kohn and H.-M. Nguyen, "Analysis of a compressed thin film bonded to a compliant substrate: the energy scaling law", Journal of Nonlinear Science 23, 343-362 (2013) R.V. Kohn and S. Serfaty, "A deterministic-control-based approach to motion by curvature", Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics 59, 344-407 (2006) New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
