Jinzi Mac Huang | NYU Shanghai Jump to navigation Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Visitors Media Search form Search Login All NYU About subsections Who We Are Vision, Values, and Mission Leadership Our Faculty News and Publications Our Campus Contact Us Support Us quick links Work Here Commencement NYU Shanghai Foundation Compliance Reporting Line Public Safety Policies and Guidelines Sustainability Admissions subsections Admissions Overview Undergraduate Graduate Visiting Students quick links Tuition and Fees Study Abroad in Shanghai Academics subsections Undergraduate Studies Graduate and Advanced Education Other Academic Programs Office of the Registrar Library Bills, Payments and Refunds quick links Our Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Support and Tutoring Academic Advising Registration Academic Technology Portal Study Abroad in Shanghai Technology Services Work Here Research subsections Research at NYU Shanghai quick links Research News Research Events Centers and Institutes Resources Research Opportunities Grant Opportunities Research during COVID-19 Student Life subsections Student Life Overview New Student and Diversity Programs Residential Life and Housing Activities & Community Engagement Athletics and Fitness Diversity Initiatives Career Development Health and Wellness Community Standards & Resources quick links Community Standards Emergency Support Commencement Blogs Technology Services Return to Campus 2020 NYU Around the World New York Shanghai Abu Dhabi Accra Berlin Buenos Aires Florence London Madrid Paris Prague Sydney Tel Aviv Washington Schools Arts and Science College of Arts and Science College of Dentistry College of Global Public Health Rory Meyers College of Nursing Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences Gallatin School of Individualized Study Graduate School of Arts and Science Institute of Fine Arts Institute for the Study of the Ancient World Leonard N. Stern School of Business Liberal Studies Program Robert F. Wagner Graduate School School of Law School of Medicine School of Professional Studies Silver School of Social Work Steinhardt School Tandon School of Engineering Tisch School of the Arts Gateways Students FacultyFaculty Directory Faculty Portal Open Positions Workday Teaching Resources FAQs - Working at Zhongbei How to Apply Parents News Gazette Fall 2021 Elective Courses Open to Class of 2025 You are hereHome Academic Life Our Faculty Jinzi Mac Huang Jinzi Mac Huang Mac Huang () Assistant Professor of Mathematics Email machuang@nyu.edu Homepage Link https://math.nyu.edu/~jinzi/ Jinzi Mac Huang is an Assistant Professor of Mathematics at NYU Shanghai. Interested in experimental fluid dynamics and applied mathematics, he collaborates with the Applied Math Lab atthe Courant Institute, the Applied Math Lab Shanghai at NYU Shanghai, and the Joint Physics Lab at NYU-ECNU Institute of Physics.SelectPublicationsJinzi Mac Huang, Joshua Tong, Michael J. Shelley, and Leif Ristroph. "Ultra-sharp pinnacles sculpted by natural convective dissolution." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (accepted, 2020)Khunsa Amin, Jinzi Mac Huang, Kevin J. Hu, Jun Zhang, and Leif Ristroph. "The role of shape-dependent flight stability in the origin of oriented meteorites." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 116.33 (2019)Jinzi Mac Huang, M. Nicholas J. Moore, and Leif Ristroph. "Shape dynamics and scaling laws for a body dissolving in fluid flow." Journal of Fluid Mechanics 765 (2015)EducationPhD, MathematicsCourant Institute, New York UniversityBS, Applied Physics & Applied MathematicsZhiyuan College, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Research Interests Applied Mathematics Fluid Dynamics Geophysics Soft Matter Physics Portal Campuses New York Shanghai Abu Dhabi Get in Touch Contact Us Campus Tour Jobs Quicklinks Students Accessibility Website Feedback Connect with NYU Shanghai ICP15010846-2 31011502017015 2021 All rights reserved.
