Olivier Pauluis Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Olivier Pauluis Professor of Mathematics and Atmosphere/Ocean Science pauluis@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3170 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 913 Personal Homepage Education Ph.D., Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, Princeton University, USA, 2000. M.S., Applied Mathematics, Universit Catholique de Louvain, Belgium, 1995. B.S., Engineering, Universit Catholique de Louvain, Belgium, 1995. Research Interests My research interests are in both atmospheric and climate sciences. It aims at getting a better understanding of the current state of the atmosphere and of how it may change in the future. Within this broad set of issues, my main focus has been on the interactions between atmospheric circulation and the hydrological cycle. Here are some of the key questions I am trying to address: What is structure of the global atmospheric circulation and how does it vary? The atmosphere exhibit a complex global circulation, with key features such as the InterTropical Convergence Zone, subtropical semi-arid region and midlatitudes stormtracks. These arise in part due to the thermal forcing induced by Sun and in part due to the internal dynamics of the atmosphere (and the oceans). By better understanding the factors that controls these important features of the atmosphere, we may be better able to anticipate the impacts of future climate change. What maintains the atmospheric circulation? The atmosphere must continuously generate work to compensate for the frictional dissipation of kinetic energy. It does so by acting as a heat engine that transports energy from warm to cold. However, the behavior of this heat engine is highly affected by the hydrological cycle, which greatly reduces the atmosphere ability to generate kinetic energy. How does convection interact with atmospheric flows at larger scale? Convection, aka clouds, is a very unique aspect of the Earth atmosphere. They occur at a relatively small scale - a few kms - but have a disproportionate impacts on the atmosphere through the release of latent of condensation. As such, they play a central role in many atmospheric phenomena, such as thunderstorms, hurricanes, noreaster storms or the Indian Monsoon. Selected Publications O. Pauluis and A. Mrowiec, "Isentropic Analysis of Convective Motions", Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences 70, 3673-3688 (2013) O. Pauluis, "Water Vapor and Mechanical Work: A Comparison of Carnot and Steam Cycles", Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences 68, 91-102 (2011) O. Pauluis, A. Czaja, and R. Korty, "The global atmospheric circulation on moist isentropes", Science 321, 1075-1078 (2008) Research Groups Center for Atmosphere Ocean Science Center for Prototype Climate Modeling Other Links ResearchGate Page New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
