Charles S. Peskin Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Charles S. Peskin Silver Professor of Mathematics and Neural Science peskin@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3126 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 917 http://math.nyu.edu/faculty/peskin Education Ph.D., Physiology, Yeshiva University, USA, 1972. A.B., Engineering & Applied Physics, Harvard University, USA, 1968. Research Interests My research is concerned with mathematical modeling and computer simulation for problems arising in biology and medicine. My principal research effort, beginning in my Ph.D. thesis, has been the mathematical modeling of blood flow in the heart with particular emphasis on the heart valves. From this work has emerged an original computational method for fluid-structure interaction that is now called the immersed boundary method (I dont know who gave it this name!). A large part of my current work, and that of my students, involves the further development of this methodology. Its application to a growing list of ever more diverse and challenging applications includes a stochastic version for microscopic problems in which Brownian motion plays an important role. This is the regime in which biomolecular motors operate, which is another of my research interests. There is even an immersed boundary method for the bidomain equations of cardiac electrophysiology, which is an electrical rather than a mechanical problem. In the field of electrophysiology, I am also interested in modeling electrodiffusion as a means of studying the role of 3D microanatomy in neural science. Selected Publications C.S. Peskin and D.M. McQueen, "Mechanical equilibrium determines the fractal fiber architecture of the aortic heart valve leaflets", American Journal of Physiology 266, H319-H328 (1994) C.S. Peskin, "The immersed boundary method", Acta Numerica 11, 479-517 (2002) B.E. Griffith and C.S. Peskin, "Electrophysiology", Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics 66, no. 12, 1837-1913 (2013) New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
