Alex Mogilner Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Alex Mogilner Professor of Mathematics and Biology mogilner@cims.nyu.edu 212-992-7546 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 903 http://cims.nyu.edu/~mogilner/ Education Ph.D., Applied Mathematics, University of British Columbia, Canada, 1995. Ph.D., Physics, USSR Academy of Sciences, USSR, 1990. M.Eng., Engineering Physics, Ural Polytechnic Institute, USSR, 1985. Research Interests Cells use self-assembling molecular machines to move and divide. These machines are mechanochemical: they consist of dynamic cytoskeletal polymers, molecular motors that move on the polymers and exert force and biochemical regulators of the polymers and motors. I use the tools of mathematics to help explain and explore the biology of these molecular machines. My group develops mathematical models (both analytical and computational; we use PDEs, free boundary simulations, stochastic processes etc) of the mitotic spindle that helps to segregate chromosomes in dividing cells and of motile cells. We work very closely with experimental cell biologists, fine-tune the models, make and test predictions, participate in experiments' design. Some latest projects are: modeling of polarization and turning of keratocyte cells, simulating cells as free boundary problem, investigating how cells sense electric field, understanding principles of actin-myosin contraction, elucidating mechanisms of rapid self-assembly and error-correction in mitotic spindle, modeling cell crawling in 3D. Selected Publications A Mogilner, J Allard, R Wollman, "Cell polarity: Quantitative modeling as a tool in cell biology", Science 336, 175-179 (2012) R. Paul, R. Wollman, W. T. Silkworth, I. K. Nardi, D. Cimini, Alex Mogilner, "Computer simulations predict that chromosome movements and rotations accelerate mitotic spindle assembly without compromising accuracy", PNAS 106, 15708-15713 (2009) K. Keren, Z. Pincus, G. M. Allen, E. L. Barnhart, G. Marriott, A. Mogilner, J. A. Theriot, "Mechanism of shape determination in motile cells", Nature 453, 475-480 (2008) Research Groups I am also Professor at the NYU Department of Biology. Other Links Google Scholar Page Interview at The Journal of Cell Biology New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
