Edwin Gerber Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Edwin Gerber Professor of Mathematics and Atmosphere/Ocean Science gerber@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3269 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 911 Personal Homepage Education Ph.D., Applied and Computational Mathematics, Princeton University, USA, 2006. M.A., Applied and Computational Mathematics, Princeton University, USA, 2002. B.S., Mathematics and Chemistry, The University of the South (Sewanee), USA, 2000. Research Interests What does the natural variability of the atmosphere tell us about the Earth's climate and how it will respond to anthropogenic forcing? How can simplified models help us understand the dynamics of the atmosphere? These two questions shape my research, the former sharpening my focus, the latter my modus operandi. I seek to ground comprehensive Earth System models in our theoretical understanding of atmospheric dynamics, with the goal of both better understanding the climate system and improving our ability to simulate and predict it. Comprehensive models play a vital role in climate research, and are necessary for quantitatively predicting the response of the climate to anthropogenic forcing (for example, changes in carbon dioxide and stratospheric ozone). Unfortunately the increasing complexity of these models has come at the expense of their transparency. I use idealized atmospheric models to form a bridge between theory and these complicated simulations. In particular, Im interested in the role of the upper atmosphere in surface climate, and develop idealized models of the stratosphere-troposphere system. Selected Publications E.P. Gerber and S.-W. Son, "Quantifying the Summertime Response of the Austral Jet Stream and Hadley Cell to Stratospheric Ozone and Greenhouse Gases", Journal of Climate, doi:10.1175/JCLI-D-13-00539.1 (2014) E.P. Gerber, "Stratospheric versus Tropospheric Control of the Strength and Structure of the Brewer-Dobson Circulation", Journal of Atmospheric Sciences 69, 2857-2877, doi:10.1175/JAS-D-11-0341.1 (2012) E.P. Gerber, A. Butler, N. Calvo, A. Charlton-Perez, M. Giorgetta, E. Manzini, J. Perlwitz, L.M. Polvani, F. Sassi, A.A. Scaife, T.A. Shaw, S.-W. Son and S. Watanabe, "Assessing and Understanding the Impact of Stratospheric Dynamics and Variability on the Earth System", Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 93, 845-859, doi:10.1175/BAMS-D-11-00145.1 (2012) Other Links Google Scholar Page New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
