Esteban G. Tabak Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Esteban G. Tabak Professor of Mathematics tabak@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3088 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 1017 http://math.nyu.edu/faculty/tabak/ Education Ph.D., Mathematics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA, 1992. Hydraulic Engineer, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1988. Research Interests I work in various areas of applied mathematics, including Fluid Dynamics, Data Science and Optimization. My recent work in fluid dynamics has been mostly concerned with the physical and numerical modeling of large-scale flows applied to understanding the dynamics of the Atmosphere and the Ocean. In data science, I have developed new tools in density estimation and optimal transport and applied them to general problems in classification, regression, clustering and time-series analysis. In optimization, I have developed a new general methodology to solve constrained optimization problems, both continuous and discrete, through a dynamical two-person game with evolving strategies represented by the primal and dual variables. Selected Publications P.A. Milewski and E.G. Tabak, "The diurnal cycle and the meridional extent of the tropics", Physica D 240, 233-240 (2011) P.M. Laurence, R.J. Pignol, and E.G. Tabak, "Constrained Density Estimation", Proceedings of the 2011 Wolfgang Pauli Institute conference on energy and commodity trading (Springer Verlag, 2011) New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
