Lai-Sang Young Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Lai-Sang Young Henry & Lucy Moses Professor of Science Professor of Mathematics lsy@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3286 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 702 http://math.nyu.edu/~lsy/ Education Ph.D., Mathematics, University of California, Berkeley, USA, 1978. M.S., Mathematics, University of California, Berkeley, USA, 1976. B.A., Mathematics, University of Wisconsin, USA, 1973. Research Interests My area of research is Dynamical Systems, a branch of modern mathematics concerned with time evolutions of natural and iterative processes. I have worked mostly with chaotic systems. Among my favorite topics are Lyapunov exponents, entropy, fractal dimension, strange attractors, random perturbations, and rates of correlation decay. I have also worked with concrete models including particle systems (billiards) and kicked oscillators. In the last 10+ years, I have become more interested in applications, and my focus has shifted toward large systems, to systems with both deterministic and stochastic components, and systems that are out of equilibrium. More recently I have expanded my research to include Theoretical Neuroscience. Selected Publications L.S. Young, "Statistical properties of dynamical systems with some hyperbolicity", Annals of Mathematics 147, 585-650 (1998) Q.D. Wang and L.S. Young, "Toward a theory of rank one attractors", Annals of Mathematics 167, no.2, 349-480 (2008) A. Rangan and L.S. Young, "Emergent dynamics in a model of visual cortex", Journal of Computational Neuroscience 35, no. 2, 155-167 (2013) Research Groups Dynamical Systems Group New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
