Marco Avellaneda Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile Marco Avellaneda Professor of Mathematics Director, Division of Quantitative Finance avellane@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3129 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 1012 http://math.nyu.edu/faculty/avellane/ Education Ph.D., Mathematics (Probability), University of Minnesota, USA, 1985. B.S./M.S., Mathematical Sciences, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1981. Research Interests I specialize in applied mathematics, probability and statistics. Most of my research of the last 10-15 years involves applications of mathematics and statistics to financial markets, derivatives, portfolio management and risk management. (Before that, I worked in applied physics). My work gets published in specialized journals such as Quantitative Finance, Risk Magazine, International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, and other publications read by practitioners as well as theoreticians. I was named Quant of the Year 2010 by Risk Magazine, for an article on hard-to-borrow stocks and their effect on equity options pricing. I am not only interested in mathematics inspired by finance. I am interested in using theory to change the way financial markets operate and to improve the quality of financial institutions in a broad sense. Selected Publications M. Avellaneda and J.-H. Lee, "Statistical arbitrage in the US equities market", Quantitative Finance 10, no. 7, 761-782 (2010) M. Avellaneda and S. Zhang, "Path-Dependence of Leveraged ETF Returns", Siam Journal of Financial Mathematics 1, 586603 (2010) M. Avellaneda and M. Lipkin, "A dynamic model for hard-to-borrow stocks", Risk Magazine (2009) Note: All three articles are available for free download at the Social Sciences Research Network (SSRN), along with many others. New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
