Stein, John Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search Manage your Profile John J Stein title="Email John_J_Stein@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel John J Stein Distinguished Senior Lecturer in Neuroscience Overview After receiving a B.A. Biology from Saint Anselm College in 1988 I entered graduate school at Brown University and received a Ph.D. in Physiology (Neuroscience) in 1995. I have been involved in teaching and advising ever since and I am currently a Senior Lecturer in the Neuroscience Department. Students, faculty andfriends, below are times that I plan tobe in my office. I am certainly availble at other times, so contact me if these do not work for you. Brown Affiliations Neuroscience On the Web Communicating Science Through Visual Media student projects Research Research Overview Outside of teaching and administrative duties at Brown, I have spent a good deal of time over the past eight years participating in science outreach activities in the local community. I am currently collaborating with members of the Brown community and local professionals on an NCRR/NIH Science Education Partnership Award titled Project ARISE: Advancing Rhode Island Science Education. The goal of this project is to develop innovative science instruction in local high school science classrooms. Research Statement The goals of my work with local science educators include creating and sustaining a partnership that will provide teachers with the content knowledge, tools, and skills they need to prepare students to think, read, write, and speak as scientists. Our project involves contributions from the Brown University Departments of Neuroscience, Education, Summer and Continuing Studies, and the Technology Division of The Education Alliance at Brown in partnership with the Providence Public School District, the East Bay Educational Collaborative, and the Rhode Island Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. We will achieve our goals through a long-term professional development program that addresses the need for high school science reform in Rhode Island. During the course of this project, 96 high school biology teachers from Rhode Island will be trained in both innovative science content and pedagogical approaches that include inquiry-based methods and active support for improving students' content-area literacy skills. Fellows commit to a two-year involvement in professional development activities consisting of 147 hours of intensive summer instruction and 84 hours of continued participation during the two academic years. As teachers gain improved content knowledge as well as teaching effectiveness, their students will be engaged in hands-on experiences in cutting-edge research and will learn to connect science to everyday life. Mobile lab equipment will be provided along with scientific and pedagogical consultants to allow innovative laboratory exercises to be taught and performed in the high school science classrooms. The results of year-long scientific inquiry will be presented at an annual symposium held at Brown University in the spring. Currently the Project ARISE has sustained support for a core of dedicated teacher participants and we are always looking to add more teachers to this group. At the same time we are adding resources to our mobile lab equipment program and maintaining monthly meetings of a professional learning community of educators. The program has received subsequent funding from a Title II Partnership Award from the Rhode Island Board of Governors for Higher Education. Funded Research National Institutes of Health Science Education Partnership Award, September 2006 ($636,131 over three years) CoPI Jennifer Aizenman, Brown University Department of Summer and Continuing Studies CoPI Lawrence Wakeford, Brown University Department of Education 2004 Society for Neuroscience Chapter Grant ($2,000) January 2004 McCune Grant, Biomedical Engineering Curriculum Development Grant Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1995 PhD Brown University 1988 BA Saint Anselm College Honors and Awards 2011 Hazeltine Teaching Citation (Senior Award) 2010 Sheridan Center Teaching with Technology Award 2008 Harriet W. Sheridan Award for Distinguished Contribution to Teaching and Learning 2007 Hazeltine Teaching Citation (Senior Award) 2006 Hazeltine Teaching Citation (Senior Award) 2005 Undergraduate Council of Students Excellence in Teaching Award 2004 Hazeltine Teaching Citation (Senior Award) 2004 Nominated for Advisor Award 2003 Undergraduate Council of Students Excellence in Teaching Award Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Haberstroh, Karen Adjunct Lecturer in Engineering Affiliations Society for Neuroscience Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience Teaching Teaching Overview I am involved in the teaching several courses, from large to small, within the fields of Neuroscience, Physiology, General Biology and Visual Arts. The majority of students in these courses are undergraduates, but enrollment can vary from high school (summer course) to graduate and medical students. Teaching BIOL 0140C - Communicating Science: Animating Science BIOL 0140T - Communicating Science Through Visual Media BIOL 0200 - The Foundation of Living Systems BIOL 0800 - Principles of Physiology BIOL 1610 - Experimental Neurobiology NEUR 0010 - The Brain: An Introduction to Neuroscience NEUR 1600 - Experimental Neurobiology About Help Brown University Feedback 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
