Walsh, Edward Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search Manage your Profile Edward G Walsh title="Email Edward_Walsh@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Edward G Walsh Assistant Professor of Neuroscience (Research) Overview Brown Affiliations Neuroscience Research Areas image guided therapy | magnetic particle imaging | magnetic resonance imaging Publications Visualize it View All (33) Article (30) Other (1) Conference Paper (2) Monnig MA, Woods AJ, Walsh E, Martone CM, Blumenthal J, Monti PM, Cohen RA. "Cerebral Metabolites on the Descending Limb of Acute Alcohol: A Preliminary 1H Study." Alcohol and Alcoholism, vol. 54, no. 5, 2019, pp. 487-496. Full Text PubMed Bang, Ji Won, Shibata, Kazuhisa, Frank, Sebastian M., Walsh, Edward G., Greenlee, Mark W., Watanabe, Takeo, Sasaki, Yuka. "Consolidation and reconsolidation share behavioural and neurochemical mechanisms." Nature Human Behaviour, vol. 2, no. 7, 2018, pp. 507-513. Full Text PubMed White TL, Monnig MA, Walsh EG, Nitenson AZ, Harris AD, Cohen RA, Porges EC, Woods AJ, Lamb DG, Boyd CA, Fekir S. "Psychostimulant drug effects on glutamate, Glx, and creatine in the anterior cingulate cortex and subjective response in healthy humans." Neuropsychopharmacology, vol. 43, no. 7, 2018, pp. 1498-1509. Full Text PubMed Shibata K, Sasaki Y, Bang JW, Walsh EG, Machizawa MG, Tamaki M, Chang LH, Watanabe T. "Corrigendum: Overlearning hyperstabilizes a skill by rapidly making neurochemical processing inhibitory-dominant." Nature Neuroscience, vol. 20, no. 10, 2017, pp. 1427. Full Text PubMed Shibata, Kazuhisa, Sasaki, Yuka, Bang, Ji Won, Walsh, Edward G, Machizawa, Maro G, Tamaki, Masako, Chang, Li-Hung, Watanabe, Takeo. "Overlearning hyperstabilizes a skill by rapidly making neurochemical processing inhibitory-dominant." Nature Neuroscience, vol. 20, no. 3, 2017, pp. 470-475. Full Text PubMed Beveridge JE, Walsh EG, Murray MM, Fleming BC. "Sensitivity of ACL volume and T 2 relaxation time to magnetic resonance imaging scan conditions." Journal of Biomechanics, vol. 56, 2017, pp. 117-121. Full Text PubMed Rand, Danielle, Walsh, Edward G, Derdak, Zoltan, Wands, Jack R, Rose-Petruck, Christoph. "A highly sensitive x-ray imaging modality for hepatocellular carcinoma detection in vitro." Physics in Medicine & Biology, vol. 60, no. 2, 2015, pp. 769-784. Full Text PubMed Biercevicz AM, Proffen BL, Murray MM, Walsh EG, Fleming BC. "T 2 * relaxometry and volume predict semi-quantitative histological scoring of an ACL bridge-enhanced primary repair in a porcine model." Journal of Orthopaedic Research, vol. 33, no. 8, 2015, pp. 1180-1187. Full Text PubMed Biercevicz AM, Akelman MR, Rubin LE, Walsh EG, Merck D, Fleming BC. "The uncertainty of predicting intact anterior cruciate ligament degeneration in terms of structural properties using T2* relaxometry in a human cadaveric model." Journal of Biomechanics, vol. 48, no. 6, 2015, pp. 1188-1192. Full Text PubMed Xu X, Jerskey BA, Cote DM, Walsh EG, Hassenstab JJ, Ladino ME, Clark US, Labbe DR, Gunstad JJ, Poppas A, Cohen RA, Hoge RD, Sweet LH. "Cerebrovascular perfusion among older adults is moderated by strength training and gender." Neuroscience Letters, vol. 560, 2014, pp. 26-30. Full Text PubMed Biercevicz AM, Walsh EG, Murray MM, Akelman MR, Fleming BC. "Improving the clinical efficiency of T2() mapping of ligament integrity." Journal of Biomechanics, vol. 47, no. 10, 2014, pp. 2522-5. Full Text PubMed Menon RG, Walsh EG, Twieg DB, Cantrell CG, Vakil P, Jonathan SV, Batjer HH, Carroll TJ. "Snapshot MR technique to measure OEF using rapid frequency mapping." Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism, vol. 34, no. 7, 2014, pp. 1111-6. Full Text PubMed Biercevicz AM, Murray MM, Walsh EG, Miranda DL, Machan JT, Fleming BC. "T2 * MR relaxometry and ligament volume are associated with the structural properties of the healing ACL." Journal of Orthopaedic Research, vol. 32, no. 4, 2014, pp. 492-9. Full Text PubMed Alosco, M. L., Gunstad, J., Beard, C., Xu, X., Clark, U. S., Labbe, D. R., Jerskey, B. A., Ladino, M., Cote, D. M., Walsh, E. G., Poppas, A., Cohen, R. A., Sweet, L. H. "The Synergistic Effects of Anxiety and Cerebral Hypoperfusion on Cognitive Dysfunction in Older Adults With Cardiovascular Disease." Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry and Neurology, vol. 28, no. 1, 2014, pp. 57-66. Full Text PubMed Chen Y, Guo F, Qiu Y, Hu H, Kulaots I, Walsh E, Hurt RH. "Encapsulation of particle ensembles in graphene nanosacks as a new route to multifunctional materials." ACS Nano, vol. 7, no. 5, 2013, pp. 3744-53. Full Text PubMed Doyle M, Weinberg N, Pohost GM, Merz CN, Shaw LJ, Sopko G, Fuisz A, Rogers WJ, Walsh EG, Johnson BD, Sharaf BL, Pepine CJ, Mankad S, Reis SE, Rayarao G, Vido DA, Bittner V, Tauxe L, Olson MB, Kelsey SF, Biederman RW. "Left Ventricular Energy Model Predicts Adverse Events in Women With Suspected Myocardial Ischemia: Results From The NHLBI-Sponsored Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation (WISE) Study." Cardiovascular diagnosis and therapy, vol. 3, no. 2, 2013, pp. 64-72. Full Text PubMed Walsh, Edward G., Mills, David R., Lim, Sierin, Sana, Barindra, Brilliant, Kate E., Park, William K. C. "MRI contrast demonstration of antigen-specific targeting with an iron-based ferritin construct." Journal of Nanoparticle Research, vol. 15, no. 1, 2013. Full Text Alosco ML, Gunstad J, Jerskey BA, Xu X, Clark US, Hassenstab J, Cote DM, Walsh EG, Labbe DR, Hoge R, Cohen RA, Sweet LH. "The adverse effects of reduced cerebral perfusion on cognition and brain structure in older adults with cardiovascular disease." Brain and behavior, vol. 3, no. 6, 2013, pp. 626-36. Full Text PubMed Doyle M, Weinberg N, Pohost GM, Bairey Merz CN, Shaw LJ, Sopko G, Fuisz A, Rogers WJ, Walsh EG, Johnson BD, Sharaf BL, Pepine CJ, Mankad S, Reis SE, Vido DA, Rayarao G, Bittner V, Tauxe L, Olson MB, Kelsey SF, Biederman RW. "Prognostic value of global MR myocardial perfusion imaging in women with suspected myocardial ischemia and no obstructive coronary disease: results from the NHLBI-sponsored WISE (Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation) study." JACC: Cardiovascular Imaging, vol. 3, no. 10, 2010, pp. 1030-6. Full Text PubMed Myers, Emily B., Blumstein, Sheila E., Walsh, Edward, Eliassen, James. "Inferior frontal regions underlie the perception of phonetic category invariance." Psychological Science, vol. 20, no. 7, 2009, pp. 895-903. Full Text PubMed Walsh EG, Brott BC, Johnson VY, Venugopalan R, Anayiotos A. "Assessment of passive cardiovascular implant devices for MRI compatibility." Technology and health care : official journal of the European Society for Engineering and Medicine, vol. 16, no. 4, 2008, pp. 233-45. PubMed Xu C, Xie J, Ho D, Wang C, Kohler N, Walsh EG, Morgan JR, Chin YE, Sun S. "Au-Fe3O4 dumbbell nanoparticles as dual-functional probes." Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl., vol. 47, no. 1, 2008, pp. 173-176. Full Text PubMed Xu, Chenjie, Xie, Jin, Kohler, Nathan, Walsh, Edward G., Chin, Y. Eugene, Sun, Shouheng. "Monodisperse Magnetite Nanoparticles Coupled with Nuclear Localization Signal Peptide for Cell-Nucleus Targeting." Chem. Asian J., vol. 3, no. 3, 2008, pp. 548-52. Full Text PubMed Walsh, E., Brott, B., Venugopalan, R., Anayiotos, A.S. "In-stent restenosis measurements by MRI." Journal of Biomechanics, vol. 39, 2006, pp. S298. Full Text Zuo J, Walsh EG, Deutsch G, Twieg DB. "Rapid mapping of flow velocity using a new PARSE method." Magnetic resonance in medicine : official journal of the Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine / Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, vol. 55, no. 1, 2006, pp. 147-52. Full Text PubMed Holton AD, Walsh EG, Brott BC, Venugopalan R, Hershey B, Ito Y, Shih A, Koomullil R, Anayiotos AS. "Evaluation of in-stent stenosis by magnetic resonance phase-velocity mapping in nickel-titanium stents." Journal of magnetic resonance imaging : JMRI, vol. 22, no. 2, 2005, pp. 248-57. Full Text PubMed Walsh EG, Holton AD, Brott BC, Venugopalan R, Anayiotos AS. "Magnetic resonance phase velocity mapping through NiTi stents in a flow phantom model." Journal of magnetic resonance imaging : JMRI, vol. 21, no. 1, 2005, pp. 59-65. Full Text PubMed Johnson VY, Walsh EG. "Nurses making a difference: the process of technology transfer." The Journal of neuroscience nursing : journal of the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses, vol. 37, no. 5, 2005, pp. 289-92. Full Text PubMed Holton, Andrea D., Brott, Brigitta C., Walsh, Edward G., Venugopalan, Ramakrishna, Shih, Alan M., Koomullil, Roy, Ito, Yasushi, Anayiotos, Andreas S. "Comparative Computational Fluid Dynamics and Experimental Phase-Contrast MRI: Evaluations of In-Stent Restenosis." Advances in Bioengineering, 2004. Full Text Zuo, J., Walsh, E.G., Twieg, D.B. "Flow SS-PARSE: a new method for rapid imaging and mapping of blood flow velocity." The 26th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 2004. Full Text PubMed Doyle M, Fuisz A, Kortright E, Biederman RW, Walsh EG, Martin ET, Tauxe L, Rogers WJ, Merz CN, Pepine C, Sharaf B, Pohost GM. "The impact of myocardial flow reserve on the detection of coronary artery disease by perfusion imaging methods: an NHLBI WISE study." Journal of cardiovascular magnetic resonance : official journal of the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance, vol. 5, no. 3, 2003, pp. 475-85. Full Text PubMed Holton A, Walsh E, Anayiotos A, Pohost G, Venugopalan R. "Comparative MRI compatibility of 316 L stainless steel alloy and nickel-titanium alloy stents." Journal of cardiovascular magnetic resonance : official journal of the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance, vol. 4, no. 4, 2002, pp. 423-30. Full Text PubMed Walsh EG, Anayiotos A, Doyle M, Pohost GM. "Effect of contrast agent viscosity and injection flow velocity on bolus injection pressures for peripheral venous injection in first-pass myocardial perfusion studies." Technology and health care : official journal of the European Society for Engineering and Medicine, vol. 10, no. 1, 2002, pp. 57-63. PubMed Research Research Overview Magnetic resonance imaging of physiologic function represent areas that benefit from the development and implementation of rapid parametric imaging techniques. My collaborators and I study approaches to these problems with the aim of developing real-time display of information related to parameters such as blood flow, BOLD fMRI contrast, and temperature. Applications include functional brain imaging and mapping of temperature during thermal ablation procedures. To facilitate this, I collaborate with a group of applied mathematicians in the investigation of underlying mathematical principles that can be applied to these problems. There is also active work in the development of nanoparticle contrast/therapy agents for use in magnetic resonance imaging for target identification and acceleration of thermal therapy procedures. Recently I have begun work with collaborators in the physics department on invesitgating the possibility of quantum computing in the brain. We will use NMR spectroscopy techniques to investigate target nuclei and molecules that can act as carriers of quantum information in the in vivo environment. Research Statement In magnetic resonance imaging, field gradients are used for spatial encoding of the signals. A Fourier transform model is used to convert the data into the spatial domain for viewing of images. Difficulties with this model are that signal decay (a normal process) and local field gradients (arising in the tissue, especially near air-tissue interfaces) are not taken into account. Consequences include geometric distortion (which can result in misregistration of activation locations when mapping to anatomic reference images) and signal voids (no activation detection possible). The SS-PARSE techniques (Single-Shot Parameter Assessment by Retrieval from Signal Encoding) discards the Fourier transform model and instead casts the image reconstruction procedure as a nonlinear optimization process with the goal of providing an inverse solution to the MRI signal equation. Parametric maps of magnetization, decay rate, and frequency (a field map) are provided as the final solution in the reconstruction process. We are addressing conditioning problems associated with this technique using a mathematical formalism (in collaboration with five applied mathematicians) designed to overcome the conditioning problems associated with a direct inverse solution to the MR signal equation. Our group was awarded with the opportunity to spend three sessions at the American Institute of Mathematics using their resources to research our questions and approaches as a group. An active program in nanoparticle contrast agent development is underway in which we are investigating the design of targeted contrast agents for antigen specific binding, as well as for use as accelerants in targeted microwave tumor ablation therapy. This work includes implementation of real-time magnetic resonance temperature mapping for accurate depiction of treatment zones to reduce recurrence associated with thermal therapy. Is the brain at least in part a quantum computer? Recent scholarship points to this possibility. We are beginning to use NMR techniques to investigate candidate molecules that could permit coherence times in candidate nucleii to be sufficiently long to carry information in connection with quantum entanglement. Funded Research Current: R01AR065462 (PI: Fleming)NIAMS Non-invasive Assessment of Ligament Healing In Vivo The goal of this study is to assess the possibility of using measured MR signal relaxation times as an indicator of ligament condition during healing following surgical repair. Role: PI on Brown Subcontract: Implementation of relaxation time mapping, analysis of relaxation data VA241-14-D-0060 (PI: Hochberg) Veterans Administration, Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology The goal of this study is to develop and implement technologies and protocols for assessment and treatment of traumatic brain injury, to include prosthetic mechanisms for restoration of motor function. Role: Co-I 1P20GM103645-01A1 (PI: Sanes) NIGMS COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Core B This project aims to explore the brain basis of attention and decision making through five projects led by junior investigators and a Design and Analysis Core. Role: MRI physics/image reconstruction support Previous: 2014 DEANS Award: Neuroprotective Effects of Anti-Inflammatory Treatments on Neonatal Brain Ischemia. Start 10/14 end 12/15. Prinicpal Investigator, total award $80,000. Industry, Codman/Johnson&Johnson: Magnetic Resonance Compatibility of Hydrocephaly Shunt Devices: Start 5/12end 5/16. Principal Investigator, total award $36000. ONR N66604-08-1-1616: Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Water Infiltration into Nanoparticle-Filled Polymers. Start 3/08 end 9/08, Principal Investigator, total award $15,614. Industry, Cordis/Johnson&Johnson: Magnetic Resonance Compatibility of Hydrocephaly Shunt Devices: Start 2/08 end 3/09. Principal Investigator, total award $6000, possible follow-up funding. NIH 1RO1-1HL084178-01A1: Hemodynamic and Cognitive Function in Cardiovascular Disease (L. Sweet, PI) start 8/07, end 5/11, PI on Brown subcontract for implementation of cerebral perfusion imaging, total award $2,534,047, subcontract award $36,392. NIH 1RO1-DA020725-01: Amphetamine Effects on Brain fMRI and Behavior: Genetic and Personality Differences (T. White, PI) start 8/07 end 5/11, Co-investigator for physics support relating to imaging in high susceptibility gradient regions such as orbitofrontal cortex, 8.5% effort, total award $1,440,303. Industry: Johnson & Johnson: Center for MRI Implant Device Characterization, 6/03-5/05, total award $35,000, Co-PI for quantitative assessment of image artifacts produced by NiTi stent prototypes. NIH NINR R15-NR08210-01, Assessment of Pelvic Muscle Function in Women (PI V Johnson, Ph.D.) 3/03-2/05 total award $100,000, co-investigator for implementation of MR hardware, functional muscle imaging techniques and image processing. Scholarly Work Walsh, E.G., Basic MR Physics: Considerations for Behavioral Medicine and Neurophysiology, for Brain Imaging in Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Neuroscience. R.A. Cohen, L.H. Sweet (Editors), Springer, 2011, p.11-36. Walsh, E.G., Cardiovascular MR Instrumentation, for Textbook of Cardiovascular MRI, G.M. Pohost , K. Nayak (Editors), Informa Healthcare, 2007, p31-49. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1992 PhD Worcester Polytechnic Institute 1981 BS Worcester Polytechnic Institute Honors and Awards Alpha Eta Mu Beta Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Dupuy, Damian Professor of Diagnostic Imaging Fleming, Braden Lucy Lippitt Professor of Orthopaedics, Professor of Engineering Mitrovic, Vesna Professor of Physics Palmore, G Tayhas Elaine I. Savage Professor of Engineering, Professor of Chemistry Park, William Assistant Professor of Diagnostic Imaging (Research) Watanabe, Takeo Fred M. Seed Professor of Cognitive and Linguistic Sciences White, Tara Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences (Research) Affiliations International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society Teaching Teaching Overview I will be teaching portions of classes in the graduate Medical Physics Program relating to the physics of medical imaging. Teaching ENGN 1931S - Medical Physics PHYS 1931S - Medical Physics About Help Brown University Feedback 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
