O'Connor-Giles, Kate Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search Manage your Profile Kate O'Connor-Giles title="Email kate_oconnor-giles@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Kate O'Connor-Giles Provost's Associate Professor of Brain Science Overview Our research focuses on how neurons communicate. We are particularly interested in how neurons build synaptic connections that reliably control behaviorwhile maintaining the ability to modulate their function over a lifetime of new experiences and environments. To tackle this question we combine genetics, electrophysiology, and multi-level imaging to identify and understand themolecules and mechanisms underlying synapse formation, function, and plasticity.In parallel, we have developed new genome engineering tools to advance the study of synapses in vivo. Brown Affiliations Neuroscience On the Web O'Connor-Giles Lab website CRISPR Target Finder FlyCRISPR CRISPR stocks @ Bloomington Drosophila Stock Center Our reagents at Drosophila Genomics Resource Center Our reagents @ Addgene Publications Visualize it View All (24) Article (22) Other (2) Gratz, Scott J., Goel, Pragya, Bruckner, Joseph J., Hernandez, Roberto X., Khateeb, Karam, Macleod, Gregory T., Dickman, Dion, O'Connor-Giles, Kate M. "Endogenous tagging reveals differential regulation of Ca2+ channels at single AZs during presynaptic homeostatic potentiation and depression." The Journal of Neuroscience, 2019, pp. 3068-18. Full Text PubMed Hoover KM, Gratz SJ, Qi N, Herrmann KA, Liu Y, Perry-Richardson JJ, Vanderzalm PJ, O'Connor-Giles KM, Broihier HT. "The calcium channel subunit <sub>2</sub>-3 organizes synapses via an activity-dependent and autocrine BMP signaling pathway." Nature Communications, vol. 10, no. 1, 2019, pp. 5575. Full Text PubMed Bier E, Harrison MM, O'Connor-Giles KM, Wildonger J. "Advances in Engineering the Fly Genome with the CRISPR-Cas System." Genetics, vol. 208, no. 1, 2018, pp. 1-18. Full Text PubMed Bruckner JJ, Zhan H, Gratz SJ, Rao M, Ukken F, Zilberg G, O'Connor-Giles KM. "Fife organizes synaptic vesicles and calcium channels for high-probability neurotransmitter release." The Journal of cell biology, vol. 216, no. 1, 2017, pp. 231-246. Full Text PubMed Ukken FP, Bruckner JJ, Weir KL, Hope SJ, Sison SL, Birschbach RM, Hicks L, Taylor KL, Dent EW, Gonsalvez GB, O'Connor-Giles KM. "BAR-SH3 sorting nexins are conserved interacting proteins of Nervous wreck that organize synapses and promote neurotransmission." Journal of cell science, vol. 129, no. 1, 2016, pp. 166-77. Full Text PubMed O'Connor-Giles KM, Zhang B, Simpson JH, Wu CF. "The neurogenetics of Drosophila: the Ganetzky legacy." Journal of Neurogenetics, vol. 30, no. 3-4, 2016, pp. 149-151. Full Text PubMed Zhan H, Bruckner J, Zhang Z, O'Connor-Giles K. "Three-dimensional imaging of Drosophila motor synapses reveals ultrastructural organizational patterns." Journal of Neurogenetics, vol. 30, no. 3-4, 2016, pp. 237-246. Full Text PubMed O'Connor-Giles K. "Toll-tally tubular: A newly identified Toll-like receptor-FoxO pathway regulates dynamics of the neuronal microtubule network." The Journal of cell biology, vol. 214, no. 4, 2016, pp. 371-3. Full Text PubMed Bruckner JJ, Zhan H, O'Connor-Giles KM. "Advances in imaging ultrastructure yield new insights into presynaptic biology." Frontiers in Cellular Neuroscience, vol. 9, 2015, pp. 196. Full Text PubMed Akbari OS, Bellen HJ, Bier E, Bullock SL, Burt A, Church GM, Cook KR, Duchek P, Edwards OR, Esvelt KM, Gantz VM, Golic KG, Gratz SJ, Harrison MM, Hayes KR, James AA, Kaufman TC, Knoblich J, Malik HS, Matthews KA, O'Connor-Giles KM, Parks AL, Perrimon N, Port F, Russell S, Ueda R, Wildonger J. "BIOSAFETY. Safeguarding gene drive experiments in the laboratory." Science, vol. 349, no. 6251, 2015, pp. 927-9. Full Text PubMed Gratz SJ, Rubinstein CD, Harrison MM, Wildonger J, O'Connor-Giles KM. "CRISPR-Cas9 Genome Editing in Drosophila." Current protocols in molecular biology / edited by Frederick M. Ausubel ... [et al.], vol. 111, 2015, pp. 31.2.1-20. Full Text PubMed Hicks L, Liu G, Ukken FP, Lu S, Bollinger KE, O'Connor-Giles K, Gonsalvez GB. "Depletion or over-expression of Sh3px1 results in dramatic changes in cell morphology." Biology Open, vol. 4, no. 11, 2015, pp. 1448-61. Full Text PubMed Gratz SJ, Harrison MM, Wildonger J, O'Connor-Giles KM. "Precise Genome Editing of Drosophila with CRISPR RNA-Guided Cas9." Methods in Molecular Biology, vol. 1311, 2015, pp. 335-48. Full Text PubMed Kimble J, Bement WM, Chang Q, Cox BL, Drinkwater NR, Gourse RL, Hoskins AA, Huttenlocher A, Kreeger PK, Lambert PF, Mailick MR, Miyamoto S, Moss RL, O'Connor-Giles KM, Roopra A, Saha K, Seidel HS. "Strategies from UW-Madison for rescuing biomedical research in the US." eLife, vol. 4, 2015, pp. e09305. Full Text PubMed Harrison MM, Jenkins BV, O'Connor-Giles KM, Wildonger J. "A CRISPR view of development." Genes & Development, vol. 28, no. 17, 2014, pp. 1859-72. Full Text PubMed Gratz SJ, Ukken FP, Rubinstein CD, Thiede G, Donohue LK, Cummings AM, O'Connor-Giles KM. "Highly specific and efficient CRISPR/Cas9-catalyzed homology-directed repair in Drosophila." Genetics, vol. 196, no. 4, 2014, pp. 961-71. Full Text PubMed Gratz SJ, Wildonger J, Harrison MM, O'Connor-Giles KM. "CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome engineering and the promise of designer flies on demand." Fly, vol. 7, no. 4, 2013, pp. 249-55. Full Text PubMed Gratz SJ, Cummings AM, Nguyen JN, Hamm DC, Donohue LK, Harrison MM, Wildonger J, O'Connor-Giles KM. "Genome engineering of Drosophila with the CRISPR RNA-guided Cas9 nuclease." Genetics, vol. 194, no. 4, 2013, pp. 1029-35. Full Text PubMed Bruckner JJ, Gratz SJ, Slind JK, Geske RR, Cummings AM, Galindo SE, Donohue LK, O'Connor-Giles KM. "Fife, a Drosophila Piccolo-RIM homolog, promotes active zone organization and neurotransmitter release." Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 32, no. 48, 2012, pp. 17048-58. Full Text PubMed Babaoglan AB, O'Connor-Giles KM, Mistry H, Schickedanz A, Wilson BA, Skeath JB. "Sanpodo: a context-dependent activator and inhibitor of Notch signaling during asymmetric divisions." Development, vol. 136, no. 24, 2009, pp. 4089-98. Full Text PubMed Eberl DF, Kitamoto T, Berke B, O'Connor-Giles K, Ueda A, Lee J, Ruan H, Engel JE, Ganetzky B. "Meeting report: genes, neurons, circuits, and behaviors: highlights of cold spring harbor meeting on Drosophila neurobiology, October 3-7, 2007." Journal of Neurogenetics, vol. 22, no. 1, 2008, pp. 3-13. Full Text PubMed O'Connor-Giles KM, Ho LL, Ganetzky B. "Nervous wreck interacts with thickveins and the endocytic machinery to attenuate retrograde BMP signaling during synaptic growth." Neuron, vol. 58, no. 4, 2008, pp. 507-18. Full Text PubMed O'Connor-Giles KM, Ganetzky B. "Satellite signaling at synapses." Fly, vol. 2, no. 5, 2008, pp. 259-61. Full Text PubMed O'Connor-Giles KM, Skeath JB. "Numb inhibits membrane localization of Sanpodo, a four-pass transmembrane protein, to promote asymmetric divisions in Drosophila." Developmental Cell, vol. 5, no. 2, 2003, pp. 231-43. Full Text PubMed Research Research Overview Our research focuses on understanding communication in neural circuits - the functionally connected neurons that give rise to thought and behavior. We are particularly interested in how neurons build appropriate synaptic connections and modulate their properties to incorporate new information.Altered synaptic development and plasticity are associated with a broad range of neurological disorders including developmental disorders such as autism; motor, cognitive and psychological impairments; and neurodegeneration. Thus, the identification and characterization of the molecules that regulate synapse formation and function is key to our understanding of normal neural function and our ability to treat a variety of neurological disorders. Research Statement We combine genetics, multi-level imaging, and electrophysiology to understand the molecules and mechanisms underlying the formation, function, and plasticity of synapses from the cues that prompt neurons to form synaptic connections to the molecules that orchestrate their organization and determine their functional properties. We conduct our studies primarily in Drosophila, where we employ the rich array of genetic tools and a well-characterized model synapse that is accessible to physiological, imaging, and behavioral studies. Because of the remarkable conservation of synaptic genes, we can make generalizable insights, as has been demonstrated repeatedly through the fundamental discoveries made studying model synapses in a variety of organisms. In parallel, we have focused on developing new genome engineering tools to overcome barriers to the study of synapses in intact organisms. 1. Identification of new regulators of synapse formation, function and plasticity.In our ongoing screens for new synaptic proteins, we are combining CRISPR with bioinformatic approaches for identifying evolutionarily conserved candidate synaptic genes. We are currently characterizing several recently identified genes that encode poorly understood, conserved neuronal proteins associated with human disease. We previously identified Fife, the Drosophila homolog of Piccolo, in a behavioral screen. Fife mutants exhibit locomotor deficits and severely decreased neurotransmitter release (Bruckner, Gratz et al., 2012). Prior to this identification, it was believed that Piccolo was a vertebrate-specific component of the otherwise highly conserved complex of presynaptic scaffolding proteins known as the active zone cytomatrix. Piccolo is linked to major depression and bipolar disorder, but has been difficult to study in mammals due to genetic redundancy. Through loss-of-function studies in Drosophila, we determined that Fife promotes high-probability neurotransmitter release by organizing active zone structure to spatially couple Ca2+ channel clusters and release-ready synaptic vesicles in nanometer proximity. In addition to its role in determining baseline release probability, Fife is essential for presynaptic homeostatic potentiation (Bruckner et al., 2017). These studies help explain how synaptic strength is established and modified locally at active zones to tune communication in neural circuits. 2. Determining how neurotransmitter release properties are established and modulated at individual synapses.To predictably control behavior while remaining responsive to an ever-changing environment, neural circuits must balance reliability and plasticity. Intrinsic variability in presynaptic neurotransmitter release properties may facilitate this balance. To bridge the gap between synaptic function and structure, we are conducting electron tomographic studies of synapse ultrastructure (Bruckner et al., 2017; Zhan et al., 2016) and combining functional imaging at single synapses with CRISPR-mediated endogenous tagging of synaptic proteins.By combining genetic and imaging approaches, including functional imaging, superresolution imaging and electron microscopy, we aim to gain a comprehensive view of synapse structure and its molecular determinants to significantly advance our understanding of how active zones are organized to achieve precise release properties -- and reorganized to modulate circuit function in the face of changing inputs (Gratz et al., bioRxiv 2018). 3. Genome engineering.Genetic and molecular techniques to manipulate the genomes of organisms are invaluable tools for understanding gene function. In collaboration with the Wildonger and Harrison labs,we demonstratedthat the bacterially derived CRISPR RNA-guided Cas9 nuclease can be employed to delete and replace genes in Drosophila, and that these genome modifications can be efficiently transmitted through the germline. We have sinceoptimized tools and techniques for CRISPR-catalyzed homologous recombinationand developed Target Finder, anonline tool for identifying highly specific CRISPR target sites. More recently, we have focused on developinghigh-throughput approaches for following endogenous synaptic proteins in vivo, including in subsets of their endogenous patterns, and for identifying, labeling and controlling specific subpopulations of neurons in the intact brain. The ability to follow endogenous synaptic proteins in sparse subsets of neurons will greatly facilitate in vivo studies in the synapse-dense central nervous system. For more information visit theflyCRISPR websiteanddiscussion board. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2003 PhD Washington University in St. Louis Postdoctoral/Other Training Postdoctoral Fellow University of Wisconsin-Madison, Ganetzky lab 2004-2009 Madison, WI Honors and Awards McKnight Foundation Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award,2014-2016 NIH NINDS K99/R00 Pathway to Independence Award,2008-2012 DeLill Nasser Award for Professional Development in Genetics,2008 Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund Postdoctoral Fellowship,2004-2007 Spencer T. and Ann W. Olin Medical Scientist Fellow,2002 Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Trainer,Neuroscience Graduate Program Trainer,Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Graduate Program Appointments Provost's Associate Professor of Brain Science. Brown University, 2018- Associate Professor of Genetics & Cell and Molecular Biology. University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2016-2018 Assistant Professor of Genetics & Cell and Molecular Biology. University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2009-2016 Teaching Teaching NEUR 1530 - Communication In the Brain: What We Know and How We Know It NEUR 2030 - Advanced Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology I About Help Brown University Feedback 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
