Desrochers, Theresa Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search Manage your Profile Theresa M Desrochers title="Email Theresa_Desrochers@brown.edu Overview Publications Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Theresa M Desrochers Rosenberg Family Assistant Professor of Brain Science, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Overview The mechanisms of cognitive sequence control: Integrated studies in humans and animals Advanced cognition requires ordering sequences of cognitive actions. I seek to understand this important but understudied capacity from single neurons to networks of brain areas. In humans, I employ functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and cognitively demanding tasks. In animals, I conduct high-density recordings in a subset of parallel tasks, and bridge these models formally using animal fMRI. Please see my labweb site for more details: http://neuroscience.brown.edu/desrochers Students interesed in joining the lab should please review the "Join Us" page. People interested in participating in our experiments should please review the "Participate" page. Brown Affiliations Neuroscience Psychiatry and Human Behavior On the Web Desrochers Lab Web Site Publications Visualize it Article (7) Desrochers, Theresa M., Burk, Diana C., Badre, David, Sheinberg, David L. "The Monitoring and Control of Task Sequences in Human and Non-Human Primates." Front. Syst. Neurosci., vol. 9, 2016, pp. 185. Full Text PubMed Desrochers TM, Amemori K, Graybiel AM. "Habit Learning by Naive Macaques Is Marked by Response Sharpening of Striatal Neurons Representing the Cost and Outcome of Acquired Action Sequences." Neuron, vol. 87, no. 4, 2015, pp. 853-68. Full Text PubMed Desrochers TM, Chatham CH, Badre D. "The Necessity of Rostrolateral Prefrontal Cortex for Higher-Level Sequential Behavior." Neuron, vol. 87, no. 6, 2015, pp. 1357-68. Full Text PubMed Feingold J, Desrochers TM, Fujii N, Harlan R, Tierney PL, Shimazu H, Amemori K, Graybiel AM. "A system for recording neural activity chronically and simultaneously from multiple cortical and subcortical regions in nonhuman primates." Journal of Neurophysiology, vol. 107, no. 7, 2012, pp. 1979-95. Full Text PubMed Desrochers, Theresa M., Badre, David. "Finding parallels in fronto-striatal organization." Trends in Cognitive Sciences, vol. 16, no. 8, 2012, pp. 407-408. Full Text PubMed Desrochers TM, Jin DZ, Goodman ND, Graybiel AM. "Optimal habits can develop spontaneously through sensitivity to local cost." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 107, no. 47, 2010, pp. 20512-7. Full Text PubMed Repa JC, Muller J, Apergis J, Desrochers TM, Zhou Y, LeDoux JE. "Two different lateral amygdala cell populations contribute to the initiation and storage of memory." Nature Neuroscience, vol. 4, no. 7, 2001, pp. 724-31. Full Text PubMed Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2010 PhD Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2000 BS New York University Honors and Awards Rosenberg Assistant Professor of Brain Science and Neuroscience Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Robert J. and Nancy D. CarneyInstitute for Brain Science Appointments Assistant Professor (courtesy). Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, 2016- Assistant Professor. Department of Neuroscience, 2016- Teaching Teaching NEUR 2050 - Advanced Systems Neuroscience About Help Brown University Feedback 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
