Kaun, Karla Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search Manage your Profile Karla Kaun title="Email Karla_Kaun@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Karla Kaun Associate Professor of Neuroscience Overview I'm interested in understanding the genetic, molecular and neural mechanisms underlying reward. We investigatehow memories for appetitive stimuli are encoded in the brain and how drugs of abuse affect themolecular pathwaysin these circuits to result in aberrant motivational response.We combine genetics,behavior,in vivo imaging in behaving animals, molecular biology and biochemistry to address this. Find out moreatkaunlab.com. Brown Affiliations Neuroscience Research Areas addiction | behavior | Drosophila melanogaster | genetics | memory | molecular neuroscience | reward On the Web Kaun Lab Website Publications Visualize it View All (25) Article (21) Other (4) Petruccelli E, Brown T, Waterman A, Ledru N, Kaun KR. "Alcohol Causes Lasting Differential Transcription in Drosophila Mushroom Body Neurons." Genetics, vol. 215, no. 1, 2020, pp. 103-116. Full Text PubMed Scaplen, Kristin M, Talay, Mustafa, Nunez, Kavin M, Salamon, Sarah, Waterman, Amanda G, Gang, Sydney, Song, Sophia L, Barnea, Gilad, Kaun, Karla R. "Circuits that encode and guide alcohol-associated preference." eLife, vol. 9, 2020. Full Text PubMed Scaplen KM, Mei NJ, Bounds HA, Song SL, Azanchi R, Kaun KR. "Automated real-time quantification of group locomotor activity in Drosophila melanogaster." Scientific reports, vol. 9, no. 1, 2019, pp. 4427. Full Text PubMed Petruccelli, Emily, Feyder, Michael, Ledru, Nicolas, Jaques, Yanabah, Anderson, Edward, Kaun, Karla R. "Alcohol Activates Scabrous-Notch to Influence Associated Memories." Neuron, vol. 100, no. 5, 2018, pp. 1209-1223.e4. Full Text PubMed Nunez, Kavin M., Azanchi, Reza, Kaun, Karla R. "Cue-Induced Ethanol Seeking in Drosophila melanogaster Is Dose-Dependent." Frontiers in Physiology, vol. 9, 2018. Full Text PubMed Petruccelli, Emily, Kaun, Karla R. "Insights from intoxicated Drosophila." Alcohol, 2018. Full Text PubMed Kaun KR, Rothenfluh A. "Dopaminergic rules of engagement for memory in Drosophila." Current opinion in neurobiology, vol. 43, 2017, pp. 56-62. Full Text PubMed Scaplen, Kristin M., Kaun, Karla R. "Reward from bugs to bipeds: a comparative approach to understanding how reward circuits function." Journal of Neurogenetics, vol. 30, no. 2, 2016, pp. 133-148. Full Text PubMed Engel GL, Marella S, Kaun KR, Wu J, Adhikari P, Kong EC, Wolf FW. "Sir2/Sirt1 Links Acute Inebriation to Presynaptic Changes and the Development of Alcohol Tolerance, Preference, and Reward." Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 36, no. 19, 2016, pp. 5241-51. Full Text PubMed Albin SD, Kaun KR, Knapp JM, Chung P, Heberlein U, Simpson JH. "A Subset of Serotonergic Neurons Evokes Hunger in Adult Drosophila." Current Biology, vol. 25, no. 18, 2015, pp. 2435-40. Full Text PubMed King, Ian F. G., Eddison, Mark, Kaun, Karla R., Heberlein, Ulrike. "EGFR and FGFR Pathways Have Distinct Roles in Drosophila Mushroom Body Development and Ethanol-Induced Behavior." PLoS ONE, vol. 9, no. 1, 2014, pp. e87714. Full Text PubMed Aso, Yoshinori, Sitaraman, Divya, Ichinose, Toshiharu, Kaun, Karla R, Vogt, Katrin, Belliart-Gurin, Ghislain, Plaais, Pierre-Yves, Robie, Alice A, Yamagata, Nobuhiro, Schnaitmann, Christopher, Rowell, William J, Johnston, Rebecca M, Ngo, Teri-T B, Chen, Nan, Korff, Wyatt, Nitabach, Michael N, Heberlein, Ulrike, Preat, Thomas, Branson, Kristin M, Tanimoto, Hiromu, Rubin, Gerald M. "Mushroom body output neurons encode valence and guide memory-based action selection in Drosophila." eLife, vol. 3, 2014. Full Text PubMed Azanchi, R., Kaun, K. R., Heberlein, U. "Competing dopamine neurons drive oviposition choice for ethanol in Drosophila." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 110, no. 52, 2013, pp. 21153-21158. Full Text PubMed Kaun, Karla R., Devineni, Anita V., Heberlein, Ulrike. "Drosophila melanogaster as a model to study drug addiction." Human Genetics, vol. 131, no. 6, 2012, pp. 959-975. Full Text PubMed Shohat-Ophir, G., Kaun, K. R., Azanchi, R., Mohammed, H., Heberlein, U. "Sexual Deprivation Increases Ethanol Intake in Drosophila." Science, vol. 335, no. 6074, 2012, pp. 1351-1355. Full Text PubMed Brown, Heather L. D., Kaun, Karla R., Edgar, Bruce A. "The Small GTPase Rheb Affects Central Brain Neuronal Morphology and Memory Formation in Drosophila." PLoS ONE, vol. 7, no. 9, 2012, pp. e44888. Full Text PubMed Kaun, Karla R, Azanchi, Reza, Maung, Zaw, Hirsh, Jay, Heberlein, Ulrike. "A Drosophila model for alcohol reward." Nature Neuroscience, vol. 14, no. 5, 2011, pp. 612-619. Full Text PubMed Hilliker, Arthur, Kaun, Karla R., Sokolowski, Marla B. "cGMP-dependent protein kinase: linking foraging to energy homeostasis." Genome, vol. 52, no. 1, 2009, pp. 1-7. Full Text PubMed Kaun, Karla R., Heberlein, Ulrike. "Too Fat to Fly? New Brain Circuits Regulate Obesity in Drosophila." Neuron, vol. 63, no. 3, 2009, pp. 279-281. Full Text PubMed Kaun, K. R., Chakaborty-Chatterjee, M., Sokolowski, M. B. "Natural variation in plasticity of glucose homeostasis and food intake." Journal of Experimental Biology, vol. 211, no. 19, 2008, pp. 3160-3166. Full Text PubMed Kaun, K. R., Hendel, T., Gerber, B., Sokolowski, M. B. "Natural variation in Drosophila larval reward learning and memory due to a cGMP-dependent protein kinase." Learning & Memory, vol. 14, no. 5, 2007, pp. 342-349. Full Text PubMed Kaun, K. R., Riedl, C. A. L., Chakaborty-Chatterjee, M., Belay, A. T., Douglas, S. J., Gibbs, A. G., Sokolowski, M. B. "Natural variation in food acquisition mediated via a Drosophila cGMP-dependent protein kinase." Journal of Experimental Biology, vol. 210, no. 20, 2007, pp. 3547-3558. Full Text PubMed Hendel, Thomas, Michels, Birgit, Neuser, Kirsa, Schipanski, Angela, Kaun, Karla, Sokolowski, Marla B., Marohn, Frank, Michel, Ren, Heisenberg, Martin, Gerber, Bertram. "The carrot, not the stick: appetitive rather than aversive gustatory stimuli support associative olfactory learning in individually assayed Drosophila larvae." J Comp Physiol A, vol. 191, no. 3, 2005, pp. 265-279. Full Text PubMed Rose JK, Kaun KR, Chen SH, Rankin CH. "GLR-1, a non-NMDA glutamate receptor homolog, is critical for long-term memory in Caenorhabditis elegans." Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 23, no. 29, 2003, pp. 9595-9. PubMed Rose JK, Kaun KR, Rankin CH. "A new group-training procedure for habituation demonstrates that presynaptic glutamate release contributes to long-term memory in Caenorhabditis elegans." Learning & Memory, vol. 9, no. 3, 2002, pp. 130-7. Full Text PubMed Research Research Overview My lab uses the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster to investigate the neural substrates of drug reward at the molecular and cellular level by mapping areas in the fly brain that regulate memory of reward, and uncovering genes and pathways never-before implicated in memory of alcohol and drug reward. Research Statement I use the powerful molecular and genetic tools available in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster to investigate the neural substrates of memory, reward, and addiction at the molecular and cellular level. My goal is to develop the fly as a model to study more complex behavioral aspects associated with addiction. My lab uses a multi-tiered approach to understand the genes, molecules, and neural circuits underlying these complex behaviors. We use a combination of machine vision and machine learning approaches to develop automated, objective behavioral assays to measure the motivational responses. We then use an interdisciplinary approach that combines molecular genetics with behavioral analysis to understand the in vivo mechanism of memories at the level of individual circuits and their component cells. To investigate the molecular mechanisms driving plasticity within these circuits, we take advantage of extensive mutant libraries to perform unbiased genetic screens and innovative neurogenetic tools to perform cell-specific gene expression profiling. The combined approaches in my lab will reveal: 1) basic principles of how circuits function in vivo to form appetitive memories, and 2) novel molecular mechanisms influencing plasticity within these circuits. The basic principles revealed by this work will inform research on psychiatric illness associated with affect and memory such as depression, anxiety, addiction, and neurodegenerative disorders associated with memory loss. Funded Research Hubert & Richard Hanlon Trust Grant Award with collaborators Dr Tara White, Dr. Carolina Haass-Koffler and Dr. John McGeary The Stress Factor: Understanding the role of norepinephrine in Alcohol Use Disorder NIDA CEBRA R21DA042622 Whole-brain mapping of opiate sensitive circuits in Drosophila Carney Instititue Innovation Award with collaborator Dr. Kate O'Connor-Giles Understanding contributions of alternative splicing to appetitive memory BIBS and NPNI New Frontier Pilot Awardwith collaborator Dr. John McGeary The role of Microfibrillar Associated Protein 2 (MFAP2) and Notch 1 in alcohol cravings NIAAA R01AA024434 Notch dependent microcircuit regulation of alcohol reward memory Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2007 PhD University of Toronto 2001 BSc University of British Columbia Postdoctoral/Other Training Research Scientist Janelia Research Campus, Heberlein Lab 2011-2013 Ashburn, VA, USA Post-doctoral Fellow University of California San Francisco, Heberlein Lab 2007-2011 San Francisco, CA, USA Honors and Awards Smith Family Award for Excellence in Biomedical Research (2014-2017) Named Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Assistant Professor of Neuroscience (2015) International Behavioral and Neural Genetics Society Young Investigator Awardee (2018) Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Barnea, Gilad Sidney A. Fox and Dorothea Doctors Fox Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Professor of Neuroscience, Director of the Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits, NIH Graduate Partnership Program (NIH GPP) Director Haass-Koffler, Carolina Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Larschan, Erica Graduate Program Co-Director for the Center of Computational Molecular Biology, Associate Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry McGeary, John Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior O'Connor-Giles, Kate Provost's Associate Professor of Brain Science White, Tara Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences (Research) Affiliations Trainer in the Neuroscience graduate program, Brown University Trainer in the Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry graduate program, Brown University Trainer in the Molecular Pharmacology & Physiology graduate program, Brown University Teaching Teaching Overview NEUR 1040: Introduction to Neurogenetics Recent advances in molecular biology and molecular genetics have allowed researchers to test specific hypotheses concerning the genetic control of behavior and neurological disease. This course will familiarize you with the relatively new and exciting field of neurogenetics. We will cover basic topics, new ideas, and unsolved problems in neurogenetics primarily through the two assigned texts. However, neurogenetics is essentially a frontier area in neuroscience, and the best way to approach this topic is by scientific literature, which will be covered in some lectures. Information derived from various animal model systems, including humans, will be covered with a focus on techniques such as classical genetics, molecular genetics, genomics, and behavioral neurobiology. Teaching NEUR 1040 - Introduction to Neurogenetics About Help Brown University Feedback 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO
