New Faculty Information | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content Apply For Companies Give Home > About > Information & Technology > New Faculty Information New Faculty Information New Faculty Anderson Computing & Information Serivces (ACIS) welcomes new Faculty to UCLA Anderson. Accounts Anderson Network Account This is the account which allows access to Anderson portal . It gives you access to Anderson branded technology resources, including printing, collaboration sites, library databases and Anderson network folders. This account is also used for "wired" port access, meaning a physical network cable connected to a wall port. Anderson Network UserID: (usually first letter of first name followed by last name up to 8 characters total) example: jbruin UCLA Login ID This account gives you access to your course websites (CCLE) and deals with records (URSA), uploading course grades, and other UCLA universitywide resources. This credential is also used for the wireless network access at Anderson and across UCLA. UCLA Logon ID: (Created when you first registered with URSA) Portal This internal site is the gateway to all faculty resources, including a network of web pages designed to connect you to the entire Anderson Community. Login with your Anderson Network Account portal.anderson.ucla.edu/chairman Network Access Wireless Access Eduroam provides the highest level of security and works at other Eduroam-enabled Universities. A one-time login is required, using your UCLA logon and password. UCLA WIFI (if needed) Login required with UCLA logon and password UCLA_WEB provides the least amount of security and is intended for UCLA guests only portal.anderson.ucla.edu/acis/csr/network/wireless Wired Access Wired computers at UCLA Anderson require Network Admission Control (NAC) in order to sign on. NAC is a security client that protects all computers on the Anderson intranet from security threats. With NAC, computers that are not authorized or do not meet safe computing standards are prevented from infecting other computers. portal.anderson.ucla.edu/acis/csr/network/Pages/nac.aspx Email Your Anderson Email user name is the same as your UCLA logon. You can access your mail via the web through mail.em.ucla.edu. To set up email on your phone or Outlook, follow the steps at portal.anderson.ucla.edu/acis/csr/email. Classroom Technology Our consultants are available to provide training sessions for all the equipment inside our classrooms... Contact: csresponse@anderson.ucla.edu Instructional Tech Solutions (ITS) ITS is here to help you use technology to support teaching and learning at portal.anderson.ucla.edu/acis/its Visit our blog: blogs.anderson.ucla.edu/its Help Desk When you need help with anything technology related you can contact the CS Response helpdesk. Create a Ticket: http://support.anderson.ucla.edu/ Email: csresponse@anderson.ucla.edu Phone: 310-825-8549 (x58549) Classroom Hotline: 310-825-2445 (x52445) Location: Cornell Hall D-209 Information & Technology Overview New Faculty Information New PhD Information New MBA Student Information New MFE Student Information New MSBA Student Information Meet Our Team Anderson Computing & Information Services (Intranet Portal) Rosenfeld Library For Visitors maps & directions master calendar facility use For Companies recruit a student post a job consulting teams for GAP companies For the News Media media relations ucla anderson forecast anderson in the news faculty directory faculty expertise directory site index portal library UCLA feedback UC Regents
