Faculty Advisors | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content About Column 1 About UCLA Anderson Our Character Our Strategic Plan Our Dean Our Leadership Our History Clubs and Associations Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Column 2 Our Centers Center for Global Management Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Easton Technology Management Center Fink Center for Finance Center for Impact@Anderson Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics UCLA Anderson Forecast Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Column 3 Office of Development Information and Technology Programs Column 1 Degree Programs Full-Time MBA Fully Employed MBA Executive MBA Ph.D. Program UCLA-NUS Executive MBA Master of Financial Engineering Master of Science in Business Analytics Column 2 Executive Education Specialized Academic Programs Accounting Minor Entrepreneurship Minor Riordan Programs Leaders in Sustainability Certificate Program Easton Technology Leadership Summer Institute Media, Entertainment and Sports Summer Institute Column 3 Sector-Focused Programs Venture Accelerator at UCLA Anderson HealthCare@Anderson Faculty & Research Column 1 Faculty & Research Home Faculty Directory Awards Expertise Guide Open Positions Emeriti Faculty Column 2 Areas Accounting Behavioral Decision Making Decisions, Operations and Technology Management Finance Global Economics and Management Management and Organizations Marketing Strategy Column 3 Research Anderson Review Information Systems Research Program For Companies Column 1 For Companies Home Column 2 Recruit With Us Hire an MBA Hire an MFE Hire an MSBA Column 3 Engage a Student Consulting Team Applied Management Research Program Global Access Program Strategic Management Research Program Applied Finance Project Applied Analytics Project Management Practicum News & Events Column 1 News & Events 1Anderson Media Resources Press Releases Column 2 Signature Events Gerald Loeb Awards Embracing Diversity Week Commencement John Wooden Global Leadership Awards Anderson Speaker Series Dean's Distinguished Speaker Series Velocity Women's Summit Impact Week 'Palooza Anderson Student Kickoff Column 3 Podcasts Accelerate Podcast Drive Time How The World Works Why MBA Alumni Column 1 Alumni Home Alumni Directory Chapters & Groups Events Reunions Column 2 Career Services Alumni Awards New Alumni Stay Connected Column 3 Give Now Help Meet Our Team Open Search box Apply Menu Applied Management Research Program Home For Companies Applied Management Research Program Faculty Advisors Applied Management Research Program Home Requirements & Schedule Benefits To Companies Application Student Experience Faculty Advisors Contact Us FAQ Faculty Advisors Our experienced faculty advisors support our students throughout the six-month AMR project. Each team is assigned a faculty advisor who works closely with the team to monitor progress, review documents and presentations, and encourage academic and professional growth. The faculty advisor does not directly manage the interface with companies - that is the purview of the student team. Many of our advisors have directed and provided consulting services to leading companies all over the world in addition to their academic accomplishments, and so both our students and our partner organizations benefit from their wealth of expertise. They are chosen both for their skills as generalists and for their specialties. Faculty Advisors Derek Alderton Adjunct Lecturer Learn More Derek Alderton Adjunct Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Entertainment, Consulting Derek Alderton founded Alderton Business Services in 2003, after 10 years with McKinsey & Company, to provide more personal service to entrepreneurial companies. He has led studies in aerospace, financial services, health care, property development, technology and all areas of media and entertainment. He has worked in 22 countries, leading teams of over 100 people on transactions as large as $12 billion. He is one of the leading experts on the business impact of technology on traditional media. Alderton teaches part time at UCLA Anderson, where he designed and continues to teach Entertainment Strategy. He has spoken at numerous conferences and has been published multiple times. He is a chartered accountant (CPA equivalent). Email: derek.alderton@anderson.ucla.edu Education MBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management Law and Economics, University of Sydney Diploma in Finance, Securities Institute of Australia Bill Cockrum Adjunct Professor of Finance Learn More Bill Cockrum Adjunct Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Banking, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Leadership, Venture Capital Bill Cockrum has won numerous teaching awards, including recognition as the top entrepreneurial professor in the nation in a survey conducted by Business Week in 1996. He has become a legend for a case-study entrepreneurial finance class he has taught for more than 30 years, teaching students the ins and outs of acquiring and sustaining the financing for organizations. Prior to joining the UCLA faculty, Cockrum spent 25 years in financial services, initially as a marketer and last as CFO/CAO and one of the top senior officers at Becker Paribas Inc. a 3,000-employee investment banking firm. When the company was sold to Merrill Lynch in 1984, Cockrum began his second career as a consultant to chief executive officers. He serves as a consultant in a variety of industries on issues such as organization structure, strategy, marketing, finance and administration. Shortly after starting consulting, Cockrum in 1985 joined UCLA Anderson and in 1988 became a full-time professor, teaching students the business and finance skills needed to succeed as entrepreneurs. He has taught at UCLA Anderson for more than 30 years. He currently teaches courses on entrepreneurial finance, leadership and business ethics, real-world challenges leaders face and investment management. To date, more than 7,000 students have passed through his classroom. He also is a member of the school's Board of Visitors, the Anderson Alumni Board, the advisory board of the Price Center and the advisory board of the Fink Center, as well as a former member of the UCLA Foundation investment committee and a governor of the foundation. Cockrum is also a member of the advisory board of the Cranfield School of Management in Cranfield, England, as well as a visiting professor and a member of the advisory board of the Betteny Centre for Entrepreneurship at Cranfield University. He was also a visiting professor at Warwick Business School in Coventry, England, from 2004 to 2013, where he won teaching awards in each year from 2005 to 2012. Currently, Cockrum is a professor and member of the business schools advisory board at Trinity College Dublin, where he was awarded the top teaching award by students in 2016. Phone: (310) 825-2985 Email: bill.cockrum@anderson.ucla.edu Education MBA, Harvard University Constana Esteves-Sorenson Adjunct Assistant Professor of Marketing Learn More Constana Esteves-Sorenson Adjunct Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Banking, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Leadership, Venture Capital Constana Esteves-Sorenson joined the UCLA Anderson School of Management in 2020 from the Yale School of Management, where she was a senior lecturer. Esteves-Sorenson studies behavioral, labor and personnel economics, and her training is in economics and econometrics. Her current research explores how hiring, compensation and retention policies affect employee and firm performance. Her work has been published in peer-reviewed journals such as The Review of Economics and Statistics, Management Science and The Economic Journal, and has garnered media attention from Financial Times and The Economist. Prior to academia, she worked for Procter & Gamble and the Boston Consulting Group. Email: constanca.esteves-sorenson@anderson.ucla.edu Education Ph.D., Business and Public Policy, 2009, UC Berkeley Haas School of Business M.A.; Economics, Econometrics and Economic Theory; 2006; UC Berkeley MBA, 1999, Stanford Graduate School of Business B.A., Finance, 1994, Institute of Managerial Sciences, Lisbon University, Portugal Brian Farrell Lecturer Learn More Brian Farrell Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Digital Entertainment, Gaming Since 2014, Brian Farrell has taught Managing Disruptive Technologies and Business Models and Gaming: The State of Play. He also co-teaches Ethics and Leadership and Issues Leaders Face with Bill Cockrum and serves as an advisor to the Applied Management Research program. For over 17 years, Farrell led THQ Inc., a global digital entertainment company and developer and publisher of interactive entertainment experiences, as its chairman and CEO. Under Farrells leadership, THQ grew its revenue from $19 million in 1994 to over $1 billion by 2008, and expanded its global footprint to sell and market its games in more than 75 countries. He also drove the expansion of THQs internal product development capabilities to over 16 studios, which resulted in the development of hit game brands Saints Row, Company of Heroes, Darksiders, Homefront and the popular MX franchise. During Farrells tenure, THQ managed the interactive entertainment brands for such well-known franchises as Disney/Pixar, World Wrestling Entertainment, the Ultimate Fighting Championship and Nickelodeon. He also spearheaded THQs digital strategies, including mobile and online games, and has been a strong proponent of emerging cloud gaming technologies. In addition, Farrell has served as chairman of the Entertainment Software Association, the industrys trade association. He has also served as co-chairman of the industrys charitable foundation, which has raised over $10 million for childrens charities. He has served as chairman of the Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and is a member of the schools Board of Visitors. Farrell joined THQ in April 1991 as vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer, and was appointed to his current position in January 1995. Prior to joining THQ, he was vice president and chief financial officer of Hotel Investors Trust. Previously, he was employed by Deloitte & Touche LLP. Farrell holds a bachelors degree from Stanford University and an MBA from the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Email: bfarrell788@gmail.com EducationMBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management Michael Montgomery Lecturer Learn More Michael Montgomery Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Mergers, Strategy, Advising, Investment Banking, Media and Technology, Corporate Development Michael J. Montgomery is an advisor and investor in early-stage companies, an active board member and a lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Montgomery was the co-founder and president of Montgomery & Co. LLC, a boutique investment bank focused on media and technology, from 2000 through 2013. It specialized in mergers and acquisitions and equity financings for private and public companies, and became known for its focus on the intersection of media and technology. Montgomery & Co. merged its operations into Signal Hill in 2013. Prior to Montgomery & Co., Montgomery served as president and CEO of Sega GameWorks LLC, a joint venture between Sega, Universal Studios and DreamWorks. It owned and operated family entertainment centers across the United States. Prior to joining Sega GameWorks, Montgomery was a partner and senior executive of DreamWorks SKG from 1995 to 1996. He was the lead executive for the companys $900-million equity raise in 1995. He also led its real estate efforts to secure land to build its studio in Glendale and its attempted studio at Playa Vista. Montgomery joined DreamWorks after a nine-year career at The Walt Disney Company. As assistant treasurer and then vice president and treasurer, he was responsible for numerous innovative financing arrangements conceived and executed for Disney. This includes the $720-million non-recourse advance for the royalties of Tokyo Disneyland, the first large royalty financing conceived for intellectual property. He was also instrumental in Silver Screen 2, 3 and 4, and the $600-million Touchwood film financing. He also proposed and then played a key role in the execution of the initial public offering of Euro Disney in 1989. Upon returning from Paris, he conceived of the first bond with a return indexed to an unrelated security or index. The $927-million zero coupon bond indexed into Euro Disneys stock value pioneered, via the SEC and Wall Street, the use of derivative-like structures imbedded in bonds. In 1993, he moved to Paris to serve as directeur general and CFO of Euro Disney, where he played an important role in a difficult financial and operational restructuring. Before joining Disney, Montgomery worked at ARCO in its treasury organization. From 1980 to 1984, he also served as CFO and later president of Arco Solar Europe, a subsidiary of Arco Solar, in Milan, Italy, and later in London. At that time, Arco Solar was the largest solar photovoltaic company in the world. Montgomery has been a director of Synacor Inc. since December 2011. He was a director of DreamWorks Animation SKG from July 2006 thorough to its sale in August 2016. He chairs the audit committee for Synacor and had the same role at DreamWorks. He is also on the boards of Seriously, Air Bud Entertainment, Open Methods and M3Bio, all private companies. Montgomery received an MBA from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College (1977), where he earned a B.A., magna cum laude (1976), as a Rufus Choate Scholar. Phone: (310) 463-1389 Email: michael.montgomery@anderson.ucla.edu EducationMBA, Dartmouth College, Tuck School of Business B.A., Economics, Dartmouth College Paul Park Lecturer & Senior Faculty Advisor, AMR Learn More Paul Park Lecturer & Senior Faculty Advisor, AMR, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Business Law, Nonprofit Law and Management, Social Entrepreneurship Paul S. Park is a lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he serves as a faculty advisor for the Applied Management Research program, the Global Access Program and the Strategic Management Research program. Parks field research projects have focused on international and social impact clients with a variety of business objectives, including venture initiation, market entry, marketing strategy and supply chain management. Park also a lecturer at the UCLA International Institute, where he teaches courses on social entrepreneurship and international business. Park is a principal of Bethel Counsel PC and provides corporate law and general counsel services to startup, real estate and social enterprise clients. His practice areas include venture initiation, corporate compliance and contract negotiation. Current and past clients have worked in the following industries: technology, health care, real estate development, retail, media, education and social services. Park previously worked with the Cesar Chavez Foundation, a California 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, in a variety of executive capacities, including executive director, general counsel and chief operating officer. He began his career at the global law firm of O'Melveny & Myers LLP, working on secured lending transactions, venture capital financings and mergers and acquisitions. Park is admitted to practice in the State of California, and holds a JD from the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law, where he served as an editor for the UCLA Law Review. He also received an MBA from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, where he was awarded a Global Access Program Fellowship. Paul earned an AB with distinction in History from Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. Park was previously appointed by Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa to serve as the president of the City of Los Angeles Board of Neighborhood Commissioners. He is also a past president and board member of the Korean American Bar Association of Southern California. He is an active member of the State Bar of California as well as the Los Angeles County Bar Association, and he serves on the board of a number of nonprofit organizations. Phone: (310) 825-8388 Email: paul.park@anderson.ucla.edu Education MBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management J.D., UCLA A.B., Cornell University Kumar Rajaram Professor of Decisions, Operations and Technology Management; William E. Leonhard Chair in Management Learn More Kumar Rajaram Professor of Decisions, Operations and Technology Management; William E. Leonhard Chair in Management; UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Operations Management in the Process Industry, Process Improvement in Health Care, Process Improvement in Nonprofits, Retail Operations Management, Theme Park Operations, Operations Management in the Motion Picture Industry Kumar Rajaram is professor of decisions, operations and technology management and the William E. Leonhard Chair in Management at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Rajarams current research interests include improving operations in the health care industry, nonprofit sector and process manufacturing sector, including food processing, pharmaceuticals and the petrochemical industry. He has focused on developing analytical models of complicated systems, with a strong emphasis on practical implementation. Rajarams work has been published in leading research journals such as Operations Research, Management Science, Manufacturing and Service Operations Management, Marketing Science and Production and Operations Management. He has been awarded the Eric and E Juline Faculty Excellence in Research Award at UCLA Anderson. Rajaram developed a new control paradigm called robust process control to increase the productivity of large-scale industrial processes. By focusing on the design and control of these processes in operational environments, this technique has resulted in four-fold increases in productivity in several types of industrial processes. These methods have been implemented at several process companies worldwide. For this work, he has been recognized by the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) as a Franz Edelman Laureate for outstanding applications of operations research and management science techniques to practice. He has also developed techniques to better balance supply with demand for products with short life cycles and highly unpredictable demand. This work has been applied at several large fashion retailers in Europe and North America, and has resulted in substantial improvements to profitability at these sites. He has also worked in developing analytical models to improve planning for HIV/AIDS screening, testing and care at the Veterans Administration. In addition, he has worked at improving patient flows at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and has developed models to improve staff and operating room assignments for surgeries at this hospital. Phone: (310) 825-4154 Email: kumar.rajaram@anderson.ucla.edu Education Ph.D., Operations Management, 1998, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania M.A., Managerial Science and Applied Economics, 1997, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania M.S., Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, 1993, University of Massachusetts at Amherst M.Sc., Mathematics, with Honors, 1991, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India B.E., Electrical and Electronics Engineering, with Honors, 1991, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India Bruce Rothman Co-Managing Member of KOAR Institutional Advisors LLC and Founding Principal of Storage Etc. LLC Learn More Bruce Rothman Co-Managing Member of KOAR Institutional Advisors LLC and Founding Principal of Storage Etc. LLC AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Real Estate Finance, Real Estate Development, Real Estate Investment Bruce H. Rothman is the co-managing member of KOAR Institutional Advisors LLC and founding principal of Storage Etc. LLC, and has been involved in the real estate industry for over 30 years. Prior to entering the real estate industry, Rothman practiced corporate securities and real estate law in Los Angeles. He has been involved in the acquisition or development of approximately $1.5 billion of income-producing real estate in the United States, including office, retail, residential, hotel self-storage and mixed-use. Rothman, a Los Angeles native, received a bachelor's degree in psychology from UCLA (1976) and a J.D. from the Gould School of Law at the University of Southern California (1982). He is a member of the California State Bar, is admitted to practice law in all California courts and is a licensed real estate broker in California. Phone: (323) 966-4989 #1 Email: bhr@koarllc.com Education B.A., UCLA J.D., University of Southern California Gould School of Law Bill Seeger UCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Bill Seeger UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Finance, Automotive, Aerospace, Energy, Electronics Bill Seeger developed his global financial experience at TRW, where he spent 30 years in the automotive, aerospace, energy and electronics sectors. Seeger held positions as division CFO, corporate treasurer, VP finance automotive, VP finance aerospace and VP planning and analysis. During the past 11 years at GKN plc, a U.K. automotive and aerospace company, he was the CFO of the aerospace division, president and CEO of propulsion systems and CFO, as well as a member of the companys board. He lived in the U.K. for seven years. Seeger currently is on the board of directors of Smiths Group as well as on the board of Spectris plc, both U.K. engineering and industrial companies. He has been a visiting professor at UCLA Anderson since January 2015. Seeger and his family live in Newport Beach, Calif. Phone: (440) 220-2085 Email: bill.seeger@gmail.com EducationMBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management B.A., Economics, UCLA Stephen Spiller Associate Professor of Marketing and Behavioral Decision Making Learn More Stephen Spiller Associate Professor of Marketing and Behavioral Decision Making, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Behavioral Decision Theory, Consumer Behavior, Consumer Financial Decision Making, Intertemporal Choice, Planning, Psychology of Money Stephen Spiller is an associate professor of marketing and behavioral decision making at the UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he has been on the faculty since 2011. Millers research examines the psychology of fundamental economic concepts. This includes how and when people consider their opportunity costs, how they plan for the future, how they reason about product differentiation and how they think about stocks versus flows. He also works to translate and disseminate best practices in data analysis for behavioral researchers. His work has been published in leading journals, including Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing Research, Management Science, Psychological Science and Journal of Consumer Psychology. He was named a 2017 MSI Young Scholar and was a finalist for the Journal of Marketing Researchs William F. ODell Award in 2018. Miller received his Ph.D. in marketing from Duke University and his B.A. in psychology and economics from the University of Virginia. Phone: (310) 206-4879 Email: stephen.spiller@anderson.ucla.edu EducationB.A., Psychology and Economics, University of Virginia Ph.D., Marketing, Duke University Andres Terech Adjunct Associate Professor of Marketing Learn More Andres Terech Adjunct Associate Professor of Marketing, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Marketing Research, Marketing Strategy, Retailing, Salesforce Management, Distribution Channels Andres Terech is an adjunct associate professor of marketing at UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he has been voted teacher of the year by both Andersons full-time and executive MBA students. Before joining UCLA, Terech was a member of the faculty at IAE Business School, Universidad Austral in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Terech teaches courses in marketing strategy, salesforce management, distribution strategy, retail management, price policies and marketing management. He has also taught in numerous marketing executives programs, both in the U.S. and at business schools in Spain, Mexico, Chile, Peru and Ecuador. In addition to teaching marketing courses, he coaches teams in the Applied Management Research program and teaches global immersion courses in Latin America countries. Terechs research interests include modeling consumer choice behavior and competitive market structure, franchising, retailing and pricing strategy. His work has been published in scholarly journals and specialized business publications such as Marketing Letters, Case Research Journal and Harvard Business Review. Terechs consulting experience covers several marketing challenges, such as new product launches, marketing plans and growth strategies; promotion and communication programs; and feasibility analysis. He has advised clients in a variety of industries, including retailing, agribusiness, financial services, textile and automobile. He is on the advisory board of startup companies. Before becoming an academic, he worked for Accenture. Terech received his Ph.D. in marketing from the UCLA Anderson School of Management, an MBA from Universidad Austral and a BA in business administration from Universidad de Buenos Aires. Phone: (310) 206-4170 Email: andres.terech@anderson.ucla.edu Background/Education B.A., Business Administration, Universidad de Buenos Aires MBA, Universidad Austral Ph.D., Marketing, UCLA Anderson School of Management John Ullmen Lecturer of Management and Organizations Learn More Constana Esteves-Sorenson Adjunct Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Executive Coaching, Leadership Development, Network Management John Ullmen, Ph.D., is a continuing lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. He has taught for 15 years across the MBA, FEMBA, EMBA and executive education programs. Ullmen received the Teaching Excellence Award from the executive MBAs, which recognizes the faculty member who has had the most positive impact on you, contributing to your knowledge, business acumen and world view. Several global executive search firms, along with private equity firms and other organizations, ask Ullmen to coach senior leaders in their current roles or as they transition into next-level roles. Over the past two decades, Ullmen has conducted hundreds of in-depth executive coaching engagements with leaders across a wide range of Fortune 500 firms and industry leaders in technology, media, entertainment, consumer products, health care, biotech, finance, banking, real estate, professional services, construction, defense and government. Ullmens book, Real Influence: Persuade Without Pushing and Gain Without Giving In, was selected as one of the Top 30 Books in Business of the year by the leading business executive summary firm, and is in print around the world in many languages. Ullmens writing also has been featured in Harvard Business Review, on MSNBC, in the Los Angeles Times and at other major media outlets. Ullmens video programs on LinkedIn Learning have millions of paid views, have been selected for featured lists and have been translated into multiple languages. Programs include Executive Leadership, Developing Executive Presence, Influencing Others, Mindfulness, Communication Foundations, Connecting with Executives, Executive Coaching and Working with an Executive Coach. Ullmen is a frequent speaker on leadership, executive presence and influence. Ullmen began his career as an officer in the U.S. Air Force, where he served as a lead systems engineer for a global Joint Chiefs of Staff intelligence program. Phone: (310) 266-1559 Email: john.ullmen@anderson.ucla.edu Education Ph.D., Organizational Behavior, UCLA Anderson School of Management MPP, Harvard University B.S., Engineering Mechanics, U.S. Air Force Academy Jennifer Walske Adjunct Assistant Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management; Social Impact Fellow, Berkeley-Haas Learn More Jennifer Walske Adjunct Assistant Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management; Social Impact Fellow, Berkeley-Haas AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Social Startups, Social Venture Capital Firms, Investment Banking, Marketing, Entrepreneurship Dr. Jennifer Walske is an adjunct assistant professor at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and has served as the faculty director of Impact@Anderson. As a writer, researcher and investor, Dr. Walske sits on numerous boards of for-profit and nonprofit companies. Her research centers on the funding and scaling of startups, with an emphasis on social startups and social venture capital firms. She has received numerous research and teaching awards, including the best paper award from NYU Sterns Social Entrepreneurship Conference and the Cheit Award for Teaching Excellence at UC Berkeleys Haas School of Business. Prior to her academic career, Dr. Walske was an institutional investment banking securities analyst and a regular commentator on both CNN and CNBC. Prior to investment banking, she held product marketing roles at Synopsys and Intergraph. She earned a doctorate in strategy and entrepreneurship from Boston University, an MBA from Santa Clara University and a .B.A in communication studies from UC Santa Barbara. Phone: (310) 825-3544 Email: jwalske@myriadllc.com Education Ph.D., Strategy and Entrepreneurship, Boston University MBA, Santa Clara University B.A., Communication Studies, UC Santa Barbara William Yu Economist, Anderson Forecast Learn More William Yu Economist, Anderson Forecast, UCLA Anderson School of Management Forecast AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Economics, Forecasting, Data Analytics, U.S.China Economies, Housing Markets, Human Capital William Yu joined the UCLA Anderson Forecast in 2011 as an economist. At Forecast, Yu focuses on economic modeling, forecasting and the Los Angeles economy. He also conducts research on and forecasts for Chinas economy and its relationship with the U.S. economy. His research interests include a wide range of economic and financial issues, such as time series econometrics, data analytics, housing markets, human capital and innovation. Yu teaches business forecasting, predictive analytics and data science courses at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and UCLA Extension. In 2019, he received the distinguished instructor award for digital technology from UCLA Extension. He also serves as a faculty advisor for the Applied Management Research program at UCLA Anderson. Yu has published over a dozen research articles in Journal of Forecasting, International Journal of Forecasting, Journal of International Money and Finance and others. He also wrote op-ed articles in the Los Angeles Times and other newspapers. He developed the City Human Capital Index and the Los Angeles City Employment Estimate, and he wrote the quarterly U.S.China economic report. He has been cited in the local, national and overseas media frequently, including the Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, New York Times, Washington Post, Time, Bloomberg, CBS Money Watch, Al Jazeera, U-T San Diego, Los Angeles Daily News, Los Angeles Daily Breeze, Straits Times, NBC, ABC, CNBC, CNN and NPR, as well as various Chinese and Korean media. He was invited as a speaker for various events, including the annual Wilbur K. Woo Greater China Business Conference, Cathay Bank economic outlook luncheons and National Association for Business Economics conferences. Yu received his bachelors degree in finance from National Taiwan University in 1995 and was an analyst in Fubon Financial Holding in Taipei from 1997 to 2000. In 2006, he received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of Washington, where he was also an economics instructor and won two distinguished teaching awards. In 2006, he worked for the Frank Russell Investment Group for Treasury and corporate yields modeling and forecasting. From 2006 to 2011, he served as an assistant and an associate professor of economics at Winona State University, where he taught courses including forecasting methods, managerial economics, international economics, and macroeconomics. Phone: (310) 825-7805 Email: william.yu@anderson.ucla.edu EducationPh.D., Economics, University of Washington B.S., Finance, National Taiwan University Not Ready to Apply? Make a Quick Connection Introduce yourself and stay up to date on what the Executive MBA Field Study Programs can offer you. Introduce Yourself I Want To... Back to Top 110 Westwood Plaza Los Angeles, CA 90095-1481 Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Linkedin Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram Prospective Students Apply Now Degree Programs Questions? Helpful Links and Utilities Maps & Directions Directory Portal Master Calendar Terms of Use Site Index Campus and University Links Facility Use Computing Services Rosenfield Library UCLA The Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Linkedin Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram About About UCLA Anderson Our Character Our Strategic Plan Our Dean Our Leadership Our History Office of Development Office of Development Home Anderson Leadership Giving Challenge Campaign Impact Campaign Priorities Campaign Priorities Overview Marion Anderson Hall Student Support Faculty Centers and Programs Discretionary How to Give Dean's Society Reunion Giving Reunion Giving 1980 Fellowship Anderson Affiliates Anderson Affiliates Overview Full-time MBA Affiliates FEMBA Affiliates EMBA Affiliates Our Team Our Centers Our Centers Home Center for Global Management Center for Global Management Home Our Leadership For Students For Students Overview All MBA Programs Specialize In Global Management On-Campus and/or Hybrid Global Management Courses Global Immersion Courses Global Nonprofit Capstone Projects MBA Research Assistants Career and Personal Development Degree-Specific Programs UCLA-NUS Executive MBA Full-Time MBA Global Requirement Global Nonprofit Capstone Projects F/EMBA International Exchange EMBA International Business Residency Visiting Students Program Global Management Seminars International Exchange Events and Discussions Events and Discussions Overview Global Conferences Global Management Speaker & Lecture Series Global Business & Policy Forums World Today Discussion Series Robertson Lecture Series on Global Business Leadership Lunch and Dinner Series External Collaborative Partnerships Upcoming Events Past Center Sponsored Events Other UCLA Events Faculty & Global Research Video Gallery Support The Center Center for Media, Entertainment & Sports Center for Media, Entertainment & Sports Home Events and Programs Events Overview Pulse Conference Pulse Conference Home Entertainment Case Competition Game Day Sports Case Competition Up Next Conference INSIGHTS - Big Data Conference Real Madrid Global Sports Leadership Research & Insights Corporate Partnership Student Experience Student Experience Overview Academics Industry Network Undergraduate Summer Institute Undergraduate Summer Institute Overview Howard University Initiative High School Summer Discovery Alumni About Us About The Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Board of Directors Easton Technology Management Center Easton Technology Management Center For Students For Students Overview Easton Courses Specialization Fellows Innovation Challenge Innovation Challenge Home Winners Sustainability Track Healthcare Track Mentors & Advisors FAQ Past Events Tech Summer Institute Easton Events Events Overview Innovate Conference 2021 Tech + Society Conference Economic Outlook Sept 2020: Technology + Post COVID19 Economy Executive Speaker Series Easton Instructors Get Involved Research About Us About The Easton Technology Management Center Board of Advisors Faculty Advisory Board Support The Center Fink Center for Finance Fink Center for Finance & Investments Home For Students For Students Overview Academics Career Impact Student Fellowships Student Fellowships Overview Investment Banking Fellowship Kayne Investment Management Fellowship Brown Private Equity and Alternatives Fellowship Quantitative Finance Fellowship News and Events News and Events Overview Conference on Financial Markets Fink Investing Conference Fink Investing Conference Home Private Equity Roundtable Fink Credit Pitch Competition Faculty & Research Our Leadership Meet Our Board Meet Our Team Get Involved Support Us Subscribe Center for Impact@Anderson Center for Impact@Anderson Home For Students For Students Overview Courses Specializations and Certificates Impact Investing Anderson Venture Impact Partners Social Impact Consulting Faculty & Research Events Events Overview Impact Week Conversations Support Us About Us Video Gallery Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Morrison Center for Marketing & Data Analytics Home Events Events Overview Past Events Seminars Gilbert Symposium Research Research Overview Funded Research Past Research Fellows Student Programs Student Programs Overview Affiliated Student Organizations Case Competitions About Us About Us Faculty Support Us Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Home For Students For Students Overview Academics Career Impact Fellowships Undergraduate Minor in Entrepreneurship Student Investment Fund For Professionals For Professionals Overview Health Care Executive Program Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans UCLA Head Start Management Fellows Program Steinbeck Family Business Seminar Management Development for Entrepreneurs UCLA Health Care Institute NSF Innovation Corps Site Faculty and Research Alumni Anderson Venture Accelerator Anderson Venture Accelerator Home Our Companies Our Programs Our Programs Overview Two Month Activate Program Four Month Activate Program Partners Mentors and Advisors News and Events News and Events Overview Showcase 2021 Showcase 2020 Fall Showcase Highlights 2019 Spring Showcase Highlights 2019 Winter Showcase Highlights 2018 Tomorrow's Technologies, with BCGDV and Originate Give Now Meet Our Team Knapp Venture Competition Knapp Venture Competition Knapp Venture Competition Finals Rules Entrepreneur Association (EA) Past Winners Support Us Hire an Anderson Intern About Us UCLA Anderson Forecast UCLA Anderson Forecast Home About Us About Us Board of Advisors Events Research and Reports Research and Reports Overview Forecast Direct Podcast Projects and Partnerships Projects and Partnerships Overview Allen Matkins Cathay Bank GoDaddy City Human Capital Index Los Angeles City Employment Engage with Us Engage with Us Overview Become A Member Become A Sponsor Speaking Engagements Member Login Join Email List UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate For Students For Students Overview Academics Resources Challenges Fellowships Fellowships Howard and Irene Levine Fellows Peter Bren Fellows in Entrepreneurial Real Estate For Professionals For Professionals Overview Corporate Concierge Recruiting Howard and Irene Levine Affordable Housing Development Program Alumni (UCLA REAG) Events Events UCLA Ziman Center Symposium Howard J. Levine Distinguished Lecture on Business Ethics & Social Responsibility UCLA Distinguished Speaker Series in Affordable Housing Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Overview UCLA Gilbert Program in Real Estate, Finance and Urban Economics UCLA Economic Letter UCLA Affordable Housing Policy Brief Working Papers Eviction Moratoria and Other Rental Market COVID-19 Policy Interventions Mortgage Default Risk Index (MDRI) CRSP/Ziman REIT Data Series Impact on Our Community Impact on Our Community Overview Housing as Health Care Initiative Howard and Irene Levine Program in Housing and Social Responsibility Our Leadership Our Leadership Board Leadership Meet Our Team Ziman Campaign Clubs & Associations Clubs & Associations Home Anderson Student Association (ASA) Anderson Student Association (ASA) Think in the Next Innovation Challenge Think in the Next Innovation Challenge Innovation & Design Case Competition Strategy and Operations Case Competition Health Care Business Case Competition Challenges in Energy Case Competition Professional Professional Clubs Association of Veterans at Anderson (AVA) Association for Real Estate at Anderson (AREA) Business Analytics Association (BAA) Cannabis Business Association (CBA) Energy and Cleantech Association (ECA) Energy and Cleantech Association (ECA) Home Energy Innovation Conference Entertainment Management Association (EMA) Entertainment Management Association (EMA) Home International Film Festival Food & Agriculture Business Association (FABA) Healthcare Business Association (HBA) Healthcare Business Association (HBA) Home HBA VITALS Conference Health Care Business Case Competition Innovation & Design at Anderson (IDeA) Innovation & Design at Anderson (IDeA) Home Innovation and Design Case Competition Investment Finance Association (IFA) Management Consulting Association (MCA) Marketing Association (MA) Net Impact (NI) Net Impact (NI) Home High Impact Tea Retail Business Association (RBA) Retail Business Association (RBA) Home Evolve Conference Sports Business Association (SBA) Strategy & Operations Management Association (SOMA) Strategy & Operations Management Association (SOMA) Home Strategy and Operations Case Competition Tech Business Association at Anderson (AnderTech) Womens Business Connection (WBC) Identity Identity Clubs The Alliance for Latinx Management at Anderson (ALMA) Asian Management Student Association (AMSA) Black Business Students Association (BBSA) Black Business Students Association (BBSA) Home Beyond Barriers Korean Business Student Association (KBSA) Latin American Business Association (LABA) Muslim Business Student Association (MBSA) Out@Anderson (O@A) Out@Anderson (O@A) Home LGBTQ Awareness Week South Asian Business Association (SABA) Southeast Asian Business Association (SEABA) Taiwanese Student Business Association (TSBA) Institutions Institutions Clubs Anderson Student Asset Management (ASAM) Anderson Student Asset Management (ASAM) Home Annual Report Portfolios Recruiting Resources Strategies Admissions Ambassador Corps (AAC) Entrepreneur Association (EA) Entrepreneur Association (EA) CREATE Conference Challenge for Charity Interest Interest Overview A Comedy Club (ACC) Adam Smith Society (ADA) Craft Beer Club Creatives at Anderson (AnderCreative) Eats (AnderEats) Family Business Association (FBA) Public Speaking Club at Anderson (PSC) Travel and Hospitality Association (THA) Wine Club at Anderson (WCA) Athletics Athletics Overview Basketball Club at Anderson (Anderball) John Anderson Golf Club Outdoor Adventure Club (OAC) Soccer Club (SC) Surf and Beach Club (SBC) Tennis Club at Anderson (TCA) Wellness Club Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events and Spotlights Events and Spotlights Embracing Diversity Week Hear to Include The Bradford-Osborne Research Award Equity Summit EDI Advisory Council Key EDI Activities What You Can Do What You Can Do ECHO Asian@Anderson Black@Anderson Latinx@Anderson LGBTQ@Anderson Veterans@Anderson Women@Anderson Commencement Information & Technology Information & Technology Home New Faculty Information New PhD Information New MBA Student Information New MFE Student Information New MSBA Student Information Meet Our Team Anderson Computing & Information Services (Intranet Portal) Rosenfeld Library Rosenfeld Library Home Databases Databases Overview Business Databases by Name Business Databases by Category Business Databases by Category Overview Analyst Reports Articles Company Information Industry Information International Information Market Research Statistics Taxation & Accounting Technology Books & Other Sources Anderson Proxy Server / Off-Campus Access Database Alerts (Under Revision) Discipline eSources Discipline eSources Overview Accounting Decisions, Operations and Technology Management Finance Global Economics and Management Information Systems Management and Organizations Marketing Strategy Working Papers, Cases Business Topics Business Topics 10-B C-D E-K L-P Q-Z Government Information Search & Find Search & Find Electronic Journals at UCLA New "Management" Titles at Rosenfeld and Other UCLA Libraries - RSS Feed Citation Linker for Articles in (or Not in) UCLA-Licensed Online Content Career Management Company Ratios Industry Ratios Internet Search Special Collections UCLA Library Catalog Melvyl (UC Libraries) Citing Business Sources Learn Learn Overview Smart Start Research Online Tutorials Research Strategies Assessing Global Issues Career Research in the Rosenfeld Library Company Information Competitive Intelligence Research Toolkit Services Services Overview Faculty Course Support Faculty Course Support E-Commerce Media & Technology Industry Information Ph.D. Research Support Consult a Business Research Librarian Borrowing Privileges Document Delivery Field Study Research Support: AMR/BCO/GAP/SMR/UCLA-NUS EMBA Course Reserves Course Reserves Overview Find Reserve Items Info for Faculty About About Us Hours of Operation Conduct in the UCLA Libraries External (Non-Anderson) Users of Rosenfeld Library FAQs New "Management" Titles RSS Feed UCLA Library User Rights and Responsibilities Contact Us Consulting Teams Programs Degree Programs Degrees Home Full-Time MBA Full-Time MBA Home Admissions Admissions Home Request Information Requirements Events Class Profile Liveguide Webinars International Applicants FAQ Concurrent Degrees Admission Policies Consortium Candidates Academics Academics Home Customizable Schedule Flexibility & Specializations Capstone Project Capstone Project Business Creation Option Faculty Academic Centers Global Options Academic Calendar Career Impact Career Impact Consulting Career Path Marketing Career Path Entertainment Career Path Technology Career Path Finance Career Path Social Impact Career Path Health Care Career Path Entrepreneurship Career Path Real Estate Career Path Operations Career Path Energy Career Path Retail Career Path Sports Career Path Culture Culture Living in L.A. Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Family Life Clubs & Associations Embracing Diversity Financing Financing Overview Financing Opportunities Financing Requirements Connect With Our Students Meet Our Team Meet Our Team Contact Us Getting Here Fully Employed MBA Fully Employed MBA Home Admissions Admissions Admissions Events Assistant Dean's Advice Connect with a Student International Applicants UC Transfers Bruin Bridge Military and Veterans Admissions Policies FAQ Academics Academics Specializations Capstone Project Faculty Global Experience Career Impact Flexible Options Flexible Options Hybrid Culture Culture Drive Time Podcast Clubs & Associations Financing Meet our Team Meet our Team Contact Us Getting Here Executive MBA Executive MBA Home Admissions Admissions Home Class Profile Events Requirements and Deadlines International Applicants Active Duty Military FAQ Admission Policies Academics Academics Overview Flexible Schedules Leadership Electives & Certificates Global Experience Capstone Capstone Overview For Companies Faculty Academic Centers Career Impact Culture Culture Overview Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Networking Alumni Conferences and Special Events Clubs and Associations UCLA Financing Financing Overview Financing Opportunities Meet the Team Meet the Team Overview Getting Here Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program Home Admissions Admissions Overview Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Areas of Study Home Accounting Accounting Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Behavioral Decision Making Behavioral Decision Making Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Decisions, Operations and Technology Management Decisions, Operations and Technology Management Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Finance Finance Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Global Economics and Management Global Economics and Management Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Management and Organizations Management and Organizations Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Marketing Marketing Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Strategy Strategy Overview Faculty Meet the Students Courses and Seminars Current Job Market Candidates Placement Contact Download Ph.D. Brochure UCLA-NUS Executive MBA UCLA-NUS Executive MBA Visit UCLA-NUS Full Site Events For Companies Meet the Team Master of Financial Engineering Master of Financial Engineering Admissions Admissions Overview Events Requirements International Applicants FAQ Academics Academics Overview Faculty Capstone Project Career Impact Career Impact Overview Employment Report Advisory Board Culture Financing Engage with Us Engage With Us Overview Recruit An MFE Contact Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Business Analytics Admissions Admissions Overview Class Profile Prerequisites FAQ Academics Career Impact Faculty Student Life Student Life Overview Datathon For Companies For Companies Overview Meet Our Students Recruit MSBAs Capstone: Applied Analytics Project Class of 2018 Class of 2019 Class of 2020 Meet Our Team Meet Our Team Overview Contact Us Executive Education Executive Education Home Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview Executive Program Corporate Governance Cybersecurity for Boards Women's Leadership Institute Women In Governance Women In Governance Overview Board Ready Candidates Inclusive Leadership Program Strategic HR Program Leading High Performing Teams Customized Solutions Partner Programs Partner Programs Overview UCLA PGPX UCLA PGP PRO Management Acceleration Program Owners Management Program Meet Our Team Specialized Academic Programs Accounting Minor Program Accounting Minor Program Home Accounting Minor Admissions Requirements Enrolling In Classes Courses Courses Overview Course Syllabus CPA Info Useful Links Graduating Seniors Contact Us Undergraduate Minor in Entrepreneurship Leaders in Sustainability Certificate Program Riordan Programs Riordan Programs Home Riordan Scholars Program Riordan Scholars Program Overview Saturday Business Institute FAQ Riordan MBA Fellows Program Riordan MBA Fellows Program Overview FAQ Riordan College to Career Program Riordan College to Career Program Overview FAQ Our Purpose Get Involved Get Involved Overview Donations Donor Honor Roll Volunteer Opportunities Spark Campaign Who We Are Who We Are Overview Contact Us Advisory Board Riordan Gala 2021 Riordan Podcast Easton Technology Leadership Summer Institute Media Entertainment & Sports Summer Institute Media Entertainment & Sports Summer Institute Sector-Focused Programs Venture Accelerator at UCLA Anderson Home HealthCare@Anderson Sector-Focused Programs for Professionals Faculty and Research Faculty and Research Home Accounting Accounting Home Faculty Meet the Students Research Seminars and Events Ph.D. Program Contact Behavioral Decision Making Behavioral Decision Making Home Faculty Meet the Students Research Seminars and Events Ph.D. Program Contact Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Home Faculty Meet The Ph.D. Students Research Courses Seminars and Events DOTM Supply Chain Blog Ph.D. Program Contact Finance Finance Home Faculty Meet the Students Research Courses Seminars and Events Ph.D. Program Contact Global Economics and Management Global Economics and Management Home Faculty Meet the Ph.D. Students Research Courses Seminars and Events Ph.D. Program University of California GEM-BPP Research Workshop Contact Management And Organizations Management And Organizations Home Faculty Meet the Ph.D. Students Anderson Behavioral Lab Research Courses Seminars and Events HARRT at UCLA Ph.D. Program Contact Marketing Marketing Home Faculty Meet the Students Research Courses Seminars Ph.D. Program Anderson Behavioral Lab Contact Strategy Strategy Home Faculty Meet the Students Research Courses Seminars Ph.D. Program Workshops Contact Information Systems Research Program Information Systems Research Program Home Team Research Connections Visitors IS History IS History Home Grads WISRD Sponsors Contact Us Faculty Directory Faculty Awards Faculty Expertise Guide Open Positions Emeriti Faculty For Companies Applied Management Research Program Applied Management Research Program Home Requirements & Schedule Benefits To Companies Application Student Experience Faculty Advisors Contact Us FAQ Global Access Program Global Access Program Home Benefits Requirements Schedule Global Partner Network Meet the Advisors Meet the Students Past GAP Companies Application Contact Executive Portal Executive Portal Home Key Dates and Schedules Event Registration Hotels and Directions Visa Information Contact Us Explore Los Angeles Post-GAP Consulting Providers News & Events News and Events Home News Archive Virtual Events Archive Signature Events Signature Events Overview Gerald Loeb Awards Gerald Loeb Awards Home 2021 Finalists & Career Honorees Announced Banquet and Ceremony Submit Entry Our Legacy Competition Categories Winners Winners Historical Winners Finalists Career Achievement Categories Eligibility and Rules Eligibility and Rules Home FAQ Administration of Awards Final Judges News Contact Us Embracing Diversity Week Commencement Commencement Overview MBA, EMBA, FEMBA, Ph.D. Commencement MBA, EMBA, FEMBA, Ph.D. Commencement Overview FAQ Students FAQ Guests Commencement Speaker UCLA-NUS Commencement MFE Commencement MFE Commencement Overview Parking & Directions MSBA Commencement MSBA Commencement Overview Commencement Archive 2018 Parking & Directions Hotel Information Video Archives John Wooden Global Leadership Awards John Wooden Global Leadership Awards Overview Honorees Fellows Fellowship Application John Wooden Anderson Speaker Series Dean's Distinguished Speaker Series Velocity Women's Summit Impact Week 'Palooza Anderson Student Kickoff Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Directory Chapters and Groups Reunions Reunions Home Reunions 2022 Facebook Groups Events Events Overview Leading in a Technology Driven World 2021 Friday Faculty Chats Past Events Alumni Weekend 2021 Alumni Weekend 2019 Alumni Weekend 2018 Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2021 Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2018 Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2017 Career Re-LAUNCH UCLA Campus Career Services Career Services Overview Webinars Career Resources Stay Connected Stay Connected Overview Email Lists Class Notes News@Anderson Facebook LinkedIn Get Involved Alumni Awards New Alumni Meet Our Team Meet our Team Overview Board of Directors Board of Directors Overview Letter from the President Give Now Help Support Us
