Faculty Resources | Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses People Research Student Life Resources History Contact Us Directions Degree Requirements Earth Science Major Environmental Science Major Earth Science Concentration Environmental Science Concentration Environmental Science Concentration for E3B Senior Capstone Internships/Research Prospective Students Current Students DEES Guide to the PhD Degree Requirements Graduate Courses Prospective Students Admissions FAQ Admissions Requirements Dissertation Sponsors Fall 2021 Weekly Schedule 2021-2022 Year at a Glance Three-Year Course Planner DEES Full Course List Faculty Affiliated Faculty Administration Graduate Students Approved Dissertation Sponsors People by Research Field Academic Affiliates Affiliated Research Institutions Undergraduate Research Clubs and Committees Grants, Awards, & Prizes Graduate Field Trips Undergraduate Field Trips Undergraduate Faculty Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences You are here: Home Resources Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Expand all Collapse all COVID-19 Resources Resources: In the Event of a PositiveCOVID-19 Case Video Excerpt: Attendance Policy and Missed Classes and Possible Exposure toCOVID-19 in the Classroom Julie Kornfeld, PhD, MPH, Vice Provost for Academic Programs addresses the attendance policy and missed classes in theevent of a positiveCOVID-19 case in the classroom (@ 22:37 minutes). Video Excerpt: Contact Tracing and Notification and Communication Melanie Bernitz, Senior Vice President and Medical Director, Columbia Health provides an overview of the contact tracing and notification and communication process in the event of a positiveCOVID-19 case (@ 31 minutes). Document:If You Test Positive forCOVID-19 Through the Columbia Testing Program This document outlines the steps if you test positive forCOVID-19 through the Columbia Testing Program. Tips for Teaching in a Masked Environment Ensure students can hear you Since acceptable face coverings (see University guidance onPPE and Face Covering) may muffle sound, try to speak slowly, loudly, and enunciate your words. Coupled with the use of a classroom lavalier/lapel microphone (that clips to your collar) to amplify your voice, clearly articulating your words will help ensure that students will be better able to hear and understand you. CUIT-managedhybrid classroomsare equipped with wireless microphones available at the instructor podium. CUIT provides replacement batteries and podium keys through theirWalk-in Center.Ensure you can hear your students and they can hear each other Ask students to state their name and to speak loudly and enunciate when asking a question or answering a question. Repeat student questions and summarize answers so everyone can hear them. In those classrooms that can support additional microphones, you could amplify student voices by passing around a microphone to students who are asking or answering a question. Passing a microphone around the classroom falls within the campus health guidelines. Where possible, the CUIT Classroom Support team ([emailprotected]) will continue to expand classroom technology that is able to support the use of additional microphones. Provide real-time digital solutions to ensure every student has a voice Invite students to post questions during class to a classroom digital space such as a Google Doc, Zoom Chat,Ed Discussion, orCourseWorks Discussions, and to respond to their peers questions in the digital space. See the CTLs resourceFrom Online to Face-to-Face--Keeping What Worksfor strategies that promote student engagement in the face-to-face classroom. For large courses, if applicable, you can partner with your teaching assistant(s) or course assistant(s) to help make sure all students can be heard by asking them to respond to questions posted in the digital space, and to interrupt you to point to specific questions that should be addressed out loud for the whole class. Support student learning in a masked environment Provide written notes or guides in CourseWorks to help students stay on track and follow along to ensure that they do not miss what you are saying. Invite students or groups of students to collaborate on note-taking to fill in gaps individual students may have missed (see the CTLsCollaborative Learningresource for strategies). Set guidelines for interaction in a masked environment Create an environment in which students are invited to let you (and/or your TAs, if applicable) know if they cannot hear what is being said in the classroom. Communicate the desired behavior (e.g., invite students to raise their hand, to wave, or interrupt if they cannot hear you or their peers). Additionally, if using Columbia-supported digital tools for real-time classroom interaction (e.g., Google Docs, Google Slide or Jamboard as a whiteboard, CourseWorks,Ed Discussion,Poll Everywhere), communicate expectations of your students (e.g., students will need to bring charged mobile devices to the classroom) and what they can expect of you and your TA(s) if applicable.Check-in with your students Regularly ask your students how the classroom experience is going for them and if they have suggestions for improving the guidelines for interaction or creative solutions to in-person learning challenges. Collecting this feedback can be done through hand-polling, polling usingPoll Everywhere, or an exit survey (e.g., using a Google Form). These feedback strategies can also be used to engage students and check their understanding. Hybrid Classrooms CUIT has created a webpage on Hybrid Classroomsthat containsguidelines for using thenew technology. Theweb page includes: How to turn on your microphone sound How to adjust the camera view of the classroom How to begin the Zoom session Recommendations for lecture and seminar/discussion classes Recommendations for classes without in-person students The CUIT Classroom Technologies Team will be available MondayFriday from 8am until 8pm. For in-person assistance, please contact them at 212-854-3633. You may also request a training session on your classroom's technology by emailing [emailprotected]. Center for Teaching and Learning Columbia's Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) partners with faculty, students,and colleagues across the Universityto support excellence and innovation in teaching and learning. The CTL provides a range of free services including teaching consultations and observations, and educational technology training and support; programs and events, including workshops, orientations, and institutes, and the development of digital innovations in teaching and learning. The Center offers programs ranging from standalone workshops and workshop series to immersive multi-day institutes and semester-long seminar programs. Columbias learning management system, CourseWorks, is at the center of many instructional technology activities. CTL provides CourseWorks support for content and improving pedagogy. CTL also has resources to support online and hybrid teaching, Faculty of Arts & Sciences All DEES faculty are appointed in the School of Arts & Sciences (A&S). Three Divisional Deans (for Social Sciences, Humanities and Natural Sciences) exercise supervision of academic departments, research centers, institutes and other major units in their division. This includes faculty business that consists of searches, hires, leaves and retentions. They report to the Executive Vice President of Arts & Sciences, Amy Hungerford. The website of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences provides information on various policies on tenure and promotion, leaves, research and teaching. It also includes resources on funding support, awards and fellowship submissions, junior faculty support and work/life benefits. Faculty Handbook The Faculty Handbook details the organization and governance of Columbia University. It is the rule book for academic and research appointments. Guidelines for Proposing a New Course A new DEEScourse proposal requires the submission of aone-page rationale, a proposed coursesyllabus, and course description for the bulletin. Finddetails of this process on our How to Propose a New Course page. Effective Practices and Expectations for Faculty Mentors and Doctoral Advisees Please see thiswebpage from GSAS on effective practices and expectations for faculty mentors and doctoral advisees. Contact Us 106 Geoscience, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory845-365-8550 557 Schermerhorn Hall Extension,Morningside Campus212-854-4525 ChairJerry McManus Associate ChairSidney Hemming Director of Graduate StudiesGran Ekstrm Director of Undergraduate StudiesMeredith Nettles& Kerry Key Administrative Staff Director of Academic Administration & FinanceKaleigh Matthews Graduate Program ManagerKaleigh Matthews Undergraduate Program Manager & WebmasterAnastasia Yankopoulos Business OfficerYasmin Yabyabin Administrative AssistantMonica Hinojosa Assistant Director, Climate & Society MA ProgramCynthia Thomson 845-365-8550 [emailprotected] Morningside Campus557 Schermerhorn Extension, 1200 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Lamont Campus106 Geoscience Building, 61 Route 9W Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 212-854-4525 845-365-8482 Contact Us [emailprotected] Columbia University 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close
