Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Yu-Hwa Lo Faculty-Affiliate, Calit2Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Professor Los research interests are biomedical devices and systems, bioelectronics, microfluidics, nanophotonics, and semiconductor nanoscaled devices. Core research areas for Professor Lo are biomedical electronic and optical devices and systems and nanoscaled semiconductor devices. His group designs biomedical devices and systems that combine microfluidic, photonic, acoustic, and electronic technologies for in-vitro and in-vivo diagnosis and prognosis for a variety of diseases including cancers, infectious diseases, and chronic diseases. One key objective of biomedical research in his group is to develop point-of-care devices that can drastically reduce healthcare cost and improve patient outcomes. To meet this objective, his group emphasizes translational research and collaborates with researchers and doctors frombiomedical industry andmedicine. Lo is also interested in new tool developments that can enable and accelerate discoveries in biological sciences. Such unique tools are fabricated using techniques of nanoengineering, microfluidics, and optoelectronics. They can benefit research in stem cells, cancers, and bacteria and microbes. Los group also makes significant efforts in the research of nanoscaled optoelectronics for biosensing, optical communications, and quantum communications. Projects include photodetectors that can detect single photons, the smallest quanta for light, and nanoscaled photonic devices made of silicon and compound semiconductors Capsule Bio:Professor Yu-Hwa Lo received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from UC Berkeley in 1987. He worked at Bellcore as a technical staff member from 1988-1990, and became an assistant and then associate professor of Cornell University from 1991 to 1999. He became a professor of UCSD in 1999 and has been the director of the Nano3 Facility (Nanoscience, Nanoengineering, and Nanomedicine) since 2005. Currently his research interests are in microfluidics and optofluidics, lab-on-a-chip devices for biomedicine, bio-imaging, nanophotonics, and semiconductor single-photon detectors. He has published around 350 papers and 8 book chapters and been awarded 22 patents. He is a fellow of the Optical Society of America and the IEEE. Email:ylo@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-3429WebsiteLab WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
