Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Truong Q. Nguyen Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Image/Video Processing and Communications; 3D Video; Wavelets and Filter Banks. Professor Nguyen's research applies the theory of wavelets and filter banks to image and video processing, with an emphasis on low-power low-cost systems useful in entertainment, surveillance, and defense. Wavelets refer to the tiny waves of video information into which video streams may be decomposed for further manipulation and processing. Among platforms that are target of Nguyen's algorithms are: cell phones, and pocket PCs. He has succeeded in using novel techniques to provide for smoother motion animations on wireless systems that normally lack sufficient bandwidth to sustain frame rates high enough to avoid herky-jerky movement. Using the original signal, extra frames are built via temporal interpolation. In one case, next-generation (2.5G) cell phones have been made to display 20 frames of video per second, twice what would be expected from wireless connection's native data rate. Nguyen's research also been applied to increase the frame rate of conventional NTSC television signals, transforming them for HDTV and to enhance signals from robotic underwater devices functioning as robotic mine sweepers. Capsule Bio: Truong Nguyen came to the Jacobs School in 2001. He manages the Video Processing Group, and teaches courses associated with the Signal Image Processing Program (SIP). He is a 1995 recipient of an NSF career award and is co-author of a popular book: Wavelets and Filter Banks, and author of several matlab-based toolboxes on image compression, electrocardiagram compression, and filter bank design. He also holds a patent on an efficient design method for wavelets and filter banks and several patents on wavelet applications including compression and signal analysis. He received his Ph.D. from Caltech in 1989. Email:tqn001@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-5554WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Center for Wireless Communications California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
