Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Zhaowei Liu Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Development of novel nanofabrication techniques and bio-photonics, as well as research of high speed and high spatial resolution bioimaging and sensing, and light control at nanoscale using plasmonic structures Professor Zhaowie Liu's research group is dedicating to a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary field that bridges researches across disciplines especially in the areas of nanophotonics, plasmonics, nanomaterials and life science. The research topics include a combination of fundamental science exploration, engineering design and optimization, devices fabrication and characterization, and various applications. Lius work has been in the emerging field of plasmonics (optics at nanoscale) and metamaterials (artificial materials with unprecedented properties). He has been a principal driver of pioneering research in developing new concepts, devices and techniques, such as far-field superlens, optical hyperlens, tunable plasmonic lens, 3D metamaterials for optical negative refraction, and plasmonic interference lithography. Current research directions include high speed and high spatial resolution bioimaging and sensing, light control at nanoscale using plasmonic structures, development of novel nanofabrication techniques and bio-photonics. Capsule Bio:Zhaowei Liu is an assistant professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UC San Diego. His interdisciplinary research focus includes nanophotonics, plasmonics, nanomaterials and life science. Lui received his Ph.D. in mechanical engineering (MEMS/Nanotechnology) from UCLA in 2006. Before joining the Jacobs School faculty, Liu was a post-doctoral researcher at the NSF Nanoscale Science & Engineering Center (NSEC) in the Mechanical Engineering Department at UC Berkeley. Email:z4liu@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-3470Lab Website Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
