Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile George C. Papen Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Advanced photonic systems including optical communication systems, optical networking, and environmental and atmospheric remote sensing. Professor Papen's initial work in optical components and systems evolved into cross-disciplinary research and publications in a wide range of areas. Early on, he developed novel optical remote sensing systems (lidars), such as one to characterize the upper atmosphere at the South Pole. Multiple grants from NASA funded Papen's work, including demonstration of the first fiber-based lidar system to measure water vapor. His research has also yielded new techniques for reducing an inherent limitation on the amount of power that can be launched within a fiber, either for remote sensing systems or for communications systems; a patent on the technique has been filed, and a startup company created to commercialize the technology. Papen's current research has shifted from remote atmospheric sensing to photonics and fiber optic communications. One project funded by DARPA explores the application of diversity techniques (used most often to combat random signal degradation in "noisy" communication channels) to less-noisy optical computing systems to increase reliability and reduce overall power. He is developing the ECE department's first lab course dedicated to fiber optics. Papen is also interested in distance learning, and is experimenting with methods to let students do experiments remotely by accessing modern lab equipment online. Capsule Bio:George Papen joined the UCSD faculty in September 2002 from a full professorship at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He arrived at UIUC in 1989 after earning his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Wisconsin. He has been actively involved in professional associations, and chaired recent conferences including the OSA Optical Remote Sensing Conference and High Speed Interconnects within Digital Systems conference, both in 2001. He is a co-holder of three patents. Email:gpapen@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-1728Institute Affiliations:California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
