Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Nikolay A. Atanasov Other, Calit2Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Robotics, control theory, optimization, computer vision, machine learning, autonomous information collection, sensor-based planning, reactive navigation, unmanned aerial vehicles, active localization and mapping Nikolay Atanasov's research focus is on controlling teams of aerial and ground robots to collect metric, semantic, and topological information in applications such as environmental monitoring, security and surveillance, localization and mapping, search and rescue. His work investigates how to perform distributed sensing and estimation of the evolution of physical processes of interest, how to plan robot motion that minimizes the estimation uncertainty, the energy expenditure, and the information exchange among the robots, and how to have the robots autonomously execute these motion plans in a safe and robust manner. In addition to system modeling, algorithm design, and theoretical analysis, his work involves experimental validation in real robot deployments. Capsule Bio: Nikolay A. Atanasov joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UC San Diego in Fall 2016 after completing a postdoctoral fellowship at the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, University of Pennsylvania. Atanasov received his Ph.D. in electrical and systems engineering from the University of Pennsylvania in 2015. His work proposed sensing models that enable the use of context and semantic information in robot localization, mapping, and navigation and developed algorithms for active information acquisition using autonomous robot teams. His contributions were recognized by the Joseph and Rosaline Wolf award for the best Ph.D. dissertation in electrical and systems engineering at the University of Pennsylvania in 2015. He holds a Bachelor of Engineering from Trinity College and a Master of Electrical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:natanasov@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-4105Lab Website Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
