Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Young-Han Kim Faculty, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Statistical signal processing and information theory, with applications in communication, networking, data compression, and information processing. Young-Han Kim primarily works on two important challenges for today's high-speed, high-volume information processing systems -- how to describe information efficiently and how to transmit it reliably in the presence of noise and interference. With the ultimate goal of providing guidelines that can be put into practice, Dr. Kim explores fundamental principles behind a variety of applications in communication, networking, compression, prediction, and data storage. For example, he studies the role of feedback in communication networks, searching for new ways of utilizing feedback to improve system performance. In his recent work on Gaussian channels, which are the most popular models for real communication channels that can be mathematically analyzed, Young-Han Kim not only solved the long-standing open problem of finding the optimal feedback communication method, but also showed an interesting connection between control, estimation, and communication. In a broader context, Kim approaches problems of efficient and robust information flow in networks using an array of mathematical tools from statistical signal processing, control theory, convex optimization, and information theory. His other research interests include statistical inference, learning theory, and quantum information processing. Capsule Bio:Young-Han Kim is an assistant professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UC San Diego. Dr. Kim approaches problems of efficient and robust information flow in networks using an array of mathematical tools. Within the context of today's high-speed, high-volume information processing systems, Young-Han Kim primarily works on the challenges of describing information efficiently and transmitting it reliably in the presence of noise and interference. In his recent work on Gaussian channels, which are the most popular models for real communication channels that can be mathematically analyzed, Young-Han Kim not only solved the long-standing open problem of finding the optimal feedback communication method, but also showed an interesting connection between control, estimation, and communication. His other research interests include statistical inference, learning theory, and quantum information processing. Email:yhk@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-4254Website Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
