Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Xinyu Zhang Other, Calit2Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering 5G millimeter-wave networking; distributed and multi-user MIMO; mobile video streaming and virtual reality; visible light sensing and localization; RFID sensing; low-power and batteryless Internet-of-Things. Zhangs research focuses on wireless networking and mobile computing, more specifically on wireless network architectures that can achieve orders of magnitude performance gain over conventional networks, and computational sensing mechanisms that reuse wireless signals to sense ambient activities with near-vision precision. His research builds on an experimental foundation and is often validated through end-to-end system implementation. His team is the first to address the system-level challenges in realizing millimeter-wave networking, which promises to realize wire-speed connectivity anywhere, anytime.He also designed physical-layer informed protocols that can eliminate the performance glitches in mobile applications, such as mobile Web, video streaming, and virtual reality. In addition, Zhangs research augments commodity mobile devices with ambient intelligence, so that they can leverage ambient signals to track human/object locations and activities at near-vision precision. The wireless sensing modalities he developed provide emerging Internet of Things applications with certain enabling mechanisms, such as centimeter-precision indoor localization for smartphones, 3D orientation and position tracking for batteryless objects, etc. Capsule Bio: Zhang is an associate professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UC San Diego. Before joining UC San Diego, he was an assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison from 2012 to 2017. He received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Michigan in 2012. He is the recipient of ACM MobiCom Best Paper Award (2011), NSF CAREER award (2014), and Google Research Award (2017). Selected Publications: http://xyzhang.ucsd.edu/publications.html Email:xyzhang@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-6426 Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
