Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Farinaz Koushanfar Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Koushanfars research goal is to build more intelligent embedded computer systems that can ensure low-overhead security and trust, reduce energy usage, and improve performance within the physical resource constraints. Her work has applications in Internet of Things (IoT), antipiracy systems, medical devices, automotive systems, deep learning networks and secure bioinformatics. Koushanfar's research contributions includeinvention of hardware meteringfor tracing of chips post-fabrication,creation of TinyGarble, the first scalable sequential methodology and libraries for implementation and optimization of secure function evaluation, as well as development ofnovel scalable domain-specific machine learning solutionsthat result in 10-100x performance improvements over the competing methods in terms of energy, memory and timing. Koushanfar serves as an associate partner of the Intel Collaborative Research Institute for Secure Computing to aid developing solutions for the next generation of embedded secure devices. She is the founder of Women ExCEl and a co-founder of the NSF/CRI Trust-Hub. Koushanfar has received a number of awards and honors for her research, mentorship and teaching, including the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) from President Obama, the ACM SIGDA Outstanding New Faculty Award, MIT TR-35 and Young Faculty/CAREER Awards from NSF, DARPA, ONR and ARO. Capsule Bio:Koushanfar received her Ph.D. in electrical engineering and computer science as well as an M.A. in Statistics from the University of California, Berkeley, in 2005. From 2006 to 2015, she was a faculty in Rice University where she served as assistant, associate and full professor of electrical and computer engineering. Her primary research interests are domain-specific computing, embedded systems, secure computing, protection of hardware, embedded and IoT systems, as well as design automation, in particular automation of emerging data driven learning and massive data analytic algorithms. At UC San Diego, she plans to continue her work on next generation of efficient and secure data-driven computing and embedded/IoT devices and systems. Email:fkoushanfar@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-246-0251Website Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
