Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Florian Meyer Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Statistical signal processing, high-dimensional and nonlinear estimation, applied ocean sciences, inference on graphs, machine perception, multiobject tracking, network localization and navigation, multiagent systems. Florian Meyer's research is focused on statistical signal processing for navigation, mapping, and multiobject tracking in applications including maritime situational awareness, autonomous driving, and indoor localization. His work investigates efficient and scalable high-dimensional nonlinear estimation using graphical models where the number of states to be estimated may also be unknown. He develops signal processing methods which enable the consistent combination of information provided by a large number of spatially separated heterogeneous sensors and exploit physical effects such as multiple propagation paths.Techniques resulting from his research have been evaluated using different robotic platforms as well as a variety of sensing technologies such as ultra-wideband radios, high frequency surface wave radars, passive sonar arrays, and multistatic sonar networks. Capsule Bio:Florian Meyer joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UC San Diego in January 2020. He previously worked from 2017 to 2019 as a Postdoctoral Fellow and Associate in the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Meyer received the Dipl.-Ing. (M.Sc.) and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from TU Wien, Vienna, Austria, in 2011 and 2015, respectively. He proposed graph-based inference techniques for multi-agent navigation and different maritime surveillance applications as well as methods for information-seeking control of autonomous vehicles. This work led to an employment as a Research Scientist with the NATO Centre for Maritime Research and Experimentation from 2016 to 2017 and an Erwin Schrdinger Fellowship. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:flmeyer@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-246-5016 Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
