Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Duygu Kuzum Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Nanoelectronic Devices: Nanoscale engineering of materials and devices for brain-inspired computing, heterogeneous integration of nanoelectronic devices and systems. Neuroelectronics: Neural interfaces for studying dynamics of brain circuits, transparent probes for neuroimaging and optogenetics. Clinical Neurodevices: Active implantable neurodevices, clinical arrays for long-term recording, dissolvable neural electrodes for post operation monitoring. Professor Duygu Kuzums research focuses on applying innovations in nanoelectronics to develop new technologies, which will help to better understand circuit-level computation in the brain. She developed nanoelectronic synaptic devices emulating the synaptic computation and plasticity in human brain. This technology could lead to portable and energy-efficient computers that can learn and process information in real time similar to human brain. Recently, she has been working on developing novel tools to probe brain circuits with high spatial and temporal precision. Capsule Bio: Duygu Kuzum received her Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 2010, followed by a postdoctoral fellowship in bioengineering at University of Pennsylvania from 2011 to 2015. In 2004, she received her B.S. in electrical engineering from Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey. She is the author or co-author of over 40 journal and conference papers. Her work on nanoelectronic devices was featured on the cover of Nano Letters, highlighted in Nature and covered by several media outlets (New Scientist, Stanford News Report, Nanowerk, EE Times). She was a recipient of various awards including a Texas Instruments Fellowship and Intel Foundation Fellowship, PopTech Science and Public Leaders Fellowship Award in 2013 and Penn Neuroscience Pilot Innovative Research Award in 2014. She was also named among the Innovators Under 35 (TR35) by MIT Technology Review in 2014. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:dkuzum@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-2985WebsiteLab Website Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
