Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Tse Nga Ng Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Printed electronics, flexible sensing systems Professor Tina Tse Nga Ngs research focuses on the development of flexible electronics. Her research method is based on additive printing, which allows low-temperature patterning that is compatible with a wide range of materials, reduces wastes from mask steps, and enables rapid design changes and complex geometric or materials permutation. Her research aims to push the boundary of how electronics are made and used by incorporating electronic control and power sources onto any surface. Capsule Bio: Prior to joining the Jacobs School faculty in 2015, Tina Ng previously worked at Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), where her projects involved engineering solution materials and inventing new devices and systems for ink-jet and other types of digital fabrication. Some example prototypes include conformal organic photosensors for X-ray imaging, flexible circuits for electronic skin, and printed circuits for sensing in smart packaging applications. Her prototyping studies, which have advanced the design rules for printing flexible electronics, are also establishing additive manufacturing as a new capability for industries. Dr. Ng and her colleagues at PARC received the 2012 Innovation Award from Flextech Alliance for their work on printed systems and were also named runners-up for the Wall Street Journal Technology Innovation Award. Prior to working at PARC, Dr. Ng received her M.S. and Ph.D. in physical chemistry from Cornell University, where she worked with Professor John Marohn. Her previous research focused on developing force measurement techniques, such as cantilever magnetometry and electric force microscopy, to study nanoscale phenomena in thin-film semiconductors. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:tnn046@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-4898Lab Website Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
