Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Mohan M. Trivedi Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Computer vision, robotics and sensors for a number of cutting-edge applications, including "smart cars" (telematics), intelligent transportation systems, ?smart rooms" (intelligent environments), biometrics (facial recognition) and sensor-based intelligent systems. As head of UCSD's Computer Vision and Robotics Research laboratory, Professor Trivedi oversees projects such as a robotic, sensor-based traffic-incident monitoring and response system (sponsored by Caltrans). Trivedi's projects typically integrate active perception and machine vision; interactive graphical interfaces for human-machine interaction; distributed video networks; and, increasingly, wireless connectivity and remote sensing. He is knowledgeable about the use of mobile robots in hazardous situations such as disaster response, having consulted on their use in nuclear environments. Trivedi is also leading an interdisciplinary effort, as UCSD layer leader for intelligent transportation and telematics for the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology [Cal-(IT)2]. Capsule Bio: Mohan Trivedi received his PhD in Electrical Engineering from Utah State University in 1979, after completing undergraduate work in India. He has published extensively and has edited over a dozen volumes including books, special issues, video presentations, and conference proceedings. Trivedi is a recipient of the Pioneer Award and the Meritorious Service Award from the IEEE Computer Society; and the Distinguished Alumnus Award from Utah State University. He is a Fellow of the International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE). He is a founding member of the Executive Committee of the UC System-wide Digital Media Innovation Program (DiMI). Trivedi is also Editor-in-Chief of Machine Vision & Applications (http://link.springer-ny.com/link/service/journals/00138/index.htm). Email:mtrivedi@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0075WebsiteLab WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Layer Leader, California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
