Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Information is available for the campus community on theReturn to Learn website. Pleaseget vaccinatedand stay up to date with County and State guidelines as well asCDC recommendations. LEARN MORE Search Menu - JSOE About Mission & Vision Leadership Diversity Rankings News Careers History Contacts Map and Directions Prospective Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Masters for Working Professionals Cosmos (pre-college) Current Students IDEA Engineering Student Center Jobs and Internships Maker Spaces Global Ties Entrepreneurship Teams and Orgs Culture Building Programs Faculty + Research Faculty Profiles Research Centers Research Brochures NAE Members Endowed Chairs Faculty Scholars and Fellows Best Teacher Awards Research Ethics Academic Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Nanoengineering Structural Engineering Partner with Us Industry Alumni Giving Entrepreneurs Franklin Antonio Hall Faculty Profile Kenji Nomura Faculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Development of new semiconductor material and high performance flexible electronic devices for next generation electronics Nomura's research is interdisciplinary and spans the fields of material science and device physics. His expertise lies in the development of wide bandgap semiconductor and electronic devices. His researchopens the field of amorphous oxide semiconductor based thin-film transistor technology and significantly contributes to the advancement of oxide electronics. One key objective of his current research is to develop new amorphous oxide semiconductor materials and high-performance electronic devices for next generation wearable electronics, such as display and sensor applications. His group also has interest in advanced oxide-based nanostructured electronic devices. His research group works on a variety of aspects from material design, syntheses, film growth to device modeling, fabrication and testing based on theoretical and experimental approaches. His research aims to further develop oxide semiconductor device technology based on novel material development. Capsule Bio:Kenji Nomura received his Ph.D. degreein Material science engineering from the Tokyo Institute of Technology (Tokyo Tech), Japan, in 2004. Afterwards, he wasa post-doctoral researcher in Material science laboratory, Tokyo Tech. He became an Associate Professor in the Frontier research center at Tokyo Techin 2010. He developed a key semiconductor material and invented high-performance oxide-TFTs. He worked at Qualcomm Inc as a principal engineer from 2012-2017. He has led multiple semiconductor material development projects. In 2018, he joined the Jacobs School of Engineering at the University of CaliforniaSan Diego as a faculty member inthe Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:kenomura@ucsd.edu Office Phone: - - Print Your Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Flickr JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
