Robin A. Hutchinson, Ph.D., P. Eng. skip to main content FACULTY OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE Chemical Engineering Menu About Us Our History Facilities Safety Career Opportunities Contact Us Undergraduate Studies Chemical Engineering Engineering Chemistry Curriculum & Courses Information & Advice Departmental Undergraduate Policies Academic Integrity New Program: Accelerated Masters Degree Graduate Studies Degree Offerings Information and Advice Course Offerings Graduate Students CEGSA How to Apply Research Bioengineering Process Systems Engineering and Systems Biology Materials and Interfaces Clean Enery and Sustainable Environment ChEAF Graphene/GIFT Research Cluster People Faculty Cross-Appointed Faculty Adjunct Instructors Research Professionals Staff Graduate Students Emeritus Faculty Alumni Giving to CHEE Dean's Message Current Initiatives Give to The David W. Bacon Distinguished Speaker Series News Event Calendar Seminar Series Engineering & Applied Science News Home People Faculty Robin A. Hutchinson, Ph.D. Robin A. Hutchinson, Ph.D. Professor Tel: (613) 533-3097 Fax: (613) 533-6637 Email: robin.hutchinson@queensu.ca Office: Dupuis Hall 426 Publications Main Collaborations Teaching Research Projects Research Group Robin Hutchinson is a polymer reaction engineer with extensive industrial and academic experience. The Hutchinson Research Group Projects focus on improving industrial polymerization processes, and contribute to the design of new polymeric materials by developing a deeper understanding of radical polymerization kinetics and capturing that knowledge in modelling tools. When combined with careful analysis of experimental data, the approach helps to quickly identify what is not known about a process, and leads to new development opportunities. Dr Hutchinson has a strong publication record, including over 150 refereed papers and conference proceedings with over 6000 citations (h factor of 40). He oversees both Master's and PhD Students as well as undergraduate students working on 4th year independent thesis research projects and sometimes as summer research assistants in his Dupuis Hall laboratories. He involves his students with research collaborations both in Canada and internationally, and has hosted a number of post-doctoral fellows and visiting researchers at Queen's. He typically teaches two undergraduate couses per year in addition to a fall semester introductory graduate level course in Polymer Reaction Engineering. Experience Professor, 2007-current - Queen's University (Kingston ON) Associate Professor, 2000-2007 - Queen's University (Kingston ON) Senior Research Engineer, 1997-2000 - DuPont (Geneva, Switzerland) Research Engineer, 1991-1997 - DuPont (Wilmington DE) Ph.D, Chemical Eng, 1990 - University of Wisconsin (Madison WI) B.Eng, Chemical Eng, 1985 - McMaster University (Hamilton ON) Interested in Graduate Studies with the Hutchinson Research Group? The Hutchinson group collaborates extensively with academic researchers around the world, often involving student exchanges. Prof. Michael Buback and the Technical and Macromolecular Chemistry Group at the University of Gttingen, Germany Dr. Hutchinson's relationship with Michael Buback goes back over twenty years. The Buback group has invented most of the pulsed-laser polymerization (PLP) techniques used to study radical termination kinetics and have used PLP combined with EPR spectroscopy to elucidate midchain radical kinetics. We work together on the interpretation of these results, and capturing the findings in mechanistic models developed to simulate batch, semibatch and continuous polymerization processes. Dr. Hutchinson is a frequent visitor to Gttingen, including a six month stay as part of his 2006-07 sabbatical year.We have hosted Gttingen PhD students Nils Wittenberg (3 months in 2010) and Patrick Drawe (2 months in 2014) at Queen's, and our two groups have numerous joint publications. Prof. Igor Lack, Department for Biomaterials Research at the Polymer Institute of the Slovak Academy of Sciences (Bratislava) Igor Lack and his group are also long-time collaborators in the ongoing investigations of the polymerization kinetics of water-soluble monomers. The group has performed many of the PLP studies that has led to our new understanding of propagation kinetics in aqueous solution, and is renowned for their expertise in the aqueous phase size exclusion chromatography technique used to measure polymer molar mass distributions. Dr. Hutchinson spent three months in beautiful Bratislava as part of his 2013-14 sabbatical, and several students have spent summer conducting research at PISAS, including Calista Preusser (2013), Thomas Rooney (2015), Sharmaine Luk (2016), and Ikenna Ezenwajiaku (2017). Dr. Anna Chornocov (PISAS) spent three months in Kingston in the fall of 2019 working with Maryam Agboluaje on in-situ NMR kinetic studies, and we hope that Maryam can pay a return visit to Bratislava in the summer of 2021. Prof. Anatoly Nikitin, Institute on Laser and Information Technologies, Russian Academy of Sciences Anatoly Nikitin is a frequent collaborator on the modeling of radical polymerization kinetics and the elucidation of rate coefficients by detailed analysis of PLP experimental results. Currently collaborating from a distance, Nikitin has had several extended visits to Queen's, the latest being in 2009. Dr. Enrique Saldvar Guerra, Centro De Investigacin En Qumica Aplicada, Saltillo (Mexico) The Hutchinson group was pleased to host Enrique Saldvar at Queen's for six months during his 2012 sabbatical. He and his research group are active in the polymer reaction engineering community, with a particular emphasis on reversible deactivation radical polymerization (controlled radical polymerization) systems. PhD student Ivn Zapata-Gonzlez also spent 8 months at Queen's in 2012-13, resulting in joint publications on the modeling of RDRP and the influence of RDRP reactions on copolymer composition. Dr. Zapata is now a CONACYT researcher in Tijuana, where his collaboration with the Hutchinson group continues. Prof. Dagmar D'hooge, Laboratory for Chemical Technology, University of Ghent (Belgium) Queen's PhD student Kevin Payne spent several months in 2012 working with Dagmar D'hooge and his group in Ghent on the study of ATRP polymerization systems, learning some of the group's sophisticated Monte-Carlo modeling techniques, leading to two joint publications. Dr. Paul Van Steenberge spent the summer of 2016 in Kingston applying MC techniques to the representation of cobalt-mediated radical copolymerization, including the distribution of functional groups among the polymer chains. In addition to these collaborations that have involved the exchange of students, Dr. Hutchinson is appreciative of the opportunity to spend a portion of his 2013-14 sabbatical with the Polymer Reaction Engineering group at BASF (Ludwigshafen, Germany), awith Prof. Jose R. Leiza, Director of POLYMAT at the University of the Basque Country (San Sebastian, Spain) and with Prof. Davide Moscatelli at the Politecnico di Milano (Milan, Italy). Three members of Moscatelli's group PhD student Marco Dossi (2009), MSc student Raffaele Ferrari (2010), and PhD student Danilo Cuccato (2011) each spent several months at Queen's to performs PLP experiments. The collaboration was extended to the study of polymers with biomedical applications, with Queen's PhD student Thomas Rooney under joint supervision and conducting research with the Moscatelli group in 2013-14. Undergraduate Teaching Dr. Hutchinson has taught a number of different undergraduate courses throughout his years at Queen's, including Chemical Processes and Systems (CHEE 221), Chemical Reaction Engineering (CHEE 321), Industrial Catalysis (CHEE 323), Technical Communications (CHEE 360), andQuantum Chemistry and Molecular Simulation (ENCH 346). He is currently teaching Industrial Catalysis (CHEE 323). Undergraduate Research Supervision Every year finds two or three 4th year undergraduate students doing research in the Hutchinson labs for an independent research project (CHEE 421 or ENCH 417). In addition, paid summer research positions are sometimes available. A list of projects done in the lab over the last few years can be found here. Graduate Teaching Dr. Hutchinson has developed a graduate course on Polymer Reaction Engineering (CHEE 828), delivered annually. The course introduces the fundamentals of polymerization kinetics and develops the equations for calculation of polymerization rate and polymer quality measures. Process parameters which affect reaction rate, chain composition and molecular weight distribution are examined, and the design of polymer reactor systems is discussed. Consideration is also given to the problems of reactor design in heterophase polymerization. For full details on the research projects summarized briefly below, please visit the Hutchinson Research Group Projects page. Polymerization Kinetics and Reaction Engineering Projects Dr. Hutchinson's research interests are in the areas of polymerization kinetics and polymer reaction engineering (PRE), focusing in the area of radical polymerization systems. The work combines the application of specialized techniques such as Pulsed-Laser Polymerization to measure kinetic rate coefficients, the formulation of detailed mechanistic models to represent polymerization kinetics, and the execution of targeted experimental studies under industrially-relevant process conditions to test and validate the models. The improved understanding of polymer processes leads to optimization of current industrial operations, reduces the environmental footprint for both energy and raw materials, and aids in the design of new processes and products. The efforts are motivated and sustained through close interactions with industry and other academic researchers both in Canada and internationally. Radical Polymerization (RP) Fundamentals: Although focused on engineering applications, ongoing kinetic studies provide new knowledge of interest to the larger polymer chemistry community. The PLP (pulsed laser polymerization) setup is used to elucidate complex kinetics of copolymerization at high temperatures and propagation kinetics of novel monomer systems for new applications, including biomedical. RP of Water Soluble Monomers: Water-soluble polymers are used for a wide range of applications in the cosmetics, pharmaceutical, water treatment, and coatings industries. Funded by BASF (Germany), the research captures an improved understanding of the polymerization kinetics in computer models for aqueous phase homo- and copolymerizations of industrial interest. RP for Acrylic Automotive Coatings: Acrylic resins, the base polymer for many automotive coatings, are now produced with lower solvent levels and at higher temperatures than before; the low viscosity material must have sufficient chemical functionality to further react on the surface to form a tough durable coating. Secondary reactions have a marked effect on rate and polymer structure under these conditions. Funded by Axalta Coating Systems (USA), the Hutchinson group is studying the polymerization kinetics of functional monomers and developing advanced techniques to model high temperature multi-monomer polymerizations, including copolymer composition distribution. Reversible Deactivation Radical Polymerization (RDRP) Process Development: RDRP, also commonly known as controlled radical polymerization (CRP), techniques are capable of producing polymers with narrow molar-mass distributions and controlled polymer microstructure with potential high value applications. The new chemistries have great promise but some deficiencies must be overcome (residual catalyst; expensive reagents; lower polymerization rate; continuous production techniques) before it is industrially viable, the focus of our research efforts. RP for New Product Development: The Hutchinson group has used their facilities and expertise in radical polymerization to develop (often collaboratively) novel processes and products, including superabsorbent hydrogels made from bio-sourced butyrolactone monomers, and hydrolytically-degradable cationic flocculants for improved water recovery from oil sands fluid fine tailings. For full details on past and present Research Group members, please visit the Hutchinson Research Group page. Current Research Group Dr. Mingmin Zhang PDF (Jun 2019 - current)Investigating Polysaccharide-Protein Conjugation: Characterization and Effects of Glycation Conditions Dr. Amin Nasrefsahani PDF (Jun 2020 - current)Accelerated Monte-Carlo Techniques for Modeling of Polymer Architecture Derek Russell PhD (Sept 2018 - current, co-supervised by Louise Meunier)Physicochemical Characteristics and Environmental Fate of a Hydrolytically Degradable Cationic Flocculant Maryam Agboluaje PhD (promoted Jan 2019 - current)Kinetic Coefficients and Models for Polymerization Processes: Co- and Terpolymerization Studies in Water,Alcohols and Their Mixtures Opeyemi Ajogbeje PhD (Sept 2020 - current)Radical Polymerization Kinetics of Amino-functional Monomers Morgan Cooze MSc (Jan 2020 - current)Process Development for Cu(0)-Catalyzed Methacrylate Polymerization Ibrahim Refai MSc (Jan 2020 - current)Copolymerization KInetics in Water, Alcohol, and their Mixtures Gagandeep Kaur MSc (May 2020 - current)Semi-batch Radical Copolymerization in Water-Alcohol Mixtures Elizabeth Bygott MSc (Sept 2020 - current)Production and Reaction of Poly(acrylate) Macromonomers Group members also include undergraduate student researchers and occasional visiting researchers from around the world (listed under Collaborations). Life in the Lab Lab Capabilities: Follow this link for a brief overview of equipment used in our research. Conferences: Members of the research group attend conferences on a regular basis. To get an idea of the locations and scope of these meetings, look at the presentations listed on the individual web pages on the Hutchinson Research Group page. Social Gatherings: Members of the group participate in intramural sports with other graduate students in the department. In addition, we have get-togethers two or three times a year at Dr. Hutchinson's home. Industrial Interactions: Our research is funded from a combination of government and private sources, including NSERC, BASF, Axalta Coating Systems, and Nipsea Technologies. Many of the students interact directly with industrial researchers at sponsoring companies through regularly scheduled teleconference/web meetings, as well as company visits. Emeritus Faculty Current Graduate Students Staff Research Staff Adjunct Instructors Cross-Appointed Faculty Faculty Follow Chemical Engineering Twitter: @QuCHEE Follow Engineering and Applied Science Twitter Facebook Instagram Vimeo LinkedIn Contact Faculty IT for Help FEAS IT Department of Chemical Engineering Dupuis Hall, Room 201 Queen's University Kingston, Ontario Canada K7L 3N6 613-533-2765 Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science Privacy | Policies Queens University is situated on traditional Anishinaabe and Haudenosaunee Territory.
