Mark Ku | Materials Science & Engineering Coronavirus (COVID-19) update: Courses will be online through summer session.More information. Engineering Materials Science & Engineering About Us Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Honors & Awards Contact News & Events News Seminars Upcoming Events Anniversary Celebration People Advisory Committee Faculty Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Staff Visiting Scholars Research Research Areas Research Centers Materials Matters Magazine Dissertation/Thesis Archive Students Undergraduate Major Undergraduate Minors 4+1 BS/MMSE Degrees 4+1 BS/MMSE FAQs 3+2 BS/MMSE Degree 3+2 BS/MMSE FAQs Graduate Program Course Descriptions MS Requirements PhD Requirements Apply Department Policy Dissertation/Thesis Archive Student Organizations Apply Visit Alumni & Friends Make a Gift What Engineering Needs Materials Matters Magazine Alumni List UD Connection Anniversary Celebration Select Page Mark Ku Assistant Professor Department of Physics and Astronomy Department of Materials Science and Engineering Email: mku@udel.edu Quick Links Research Interests Representative Publications Curriculum Vitae Research Group Biosketch Mark Ku is an assistant professor jointly appointed in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering and Department of Physics and Astronomy. He received his B.S. degree in Mathematics and Physics in 2007, followed by M.Sc. degree in physics in 2009, from the University of British Columbia, Canada. He received Ph.D. in Physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2015. Prior to joining the University of Delaware, he worked as a postdoctoral associate at Harvard Universitys Department of Physics, with joint appointments at Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and University of Marylands Quantum Technology Center. Research Interests Technologies that harness quantum phenomena known as quantum technologies promise transformative potentials in the areas of computation, sensing, and communication. We seek to contribute to the development of quantum technologies via advancing the following two frontiers: The study of quantum materials materials that manifest collective quantum phenomena which may provide platform for qubits or new information technology, and Engineering quantum systems, including hybrid quantum architectures and multi-qubits systems. A key platform in our research are solid-state atomic qubits formed by defects in wide bandgap semiconductors, the most famous of which being nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. Our research employs interdisciplinary concepts and techniques from condensed matters physics, atomic/molecular/optical physics, quantum information science, materials science and engineering, and nanotechnology and fabrication. For a detailed description of our research interests and activities, please visit the Research Page of the Ku Group website. Representative Publications (* denotes equal contribution) M.J.H. Ku*, T.X. Zhou*, Q. Li, Y.J. Shin, J.K. Shi, C. Burch, H. Zhang, F. Casola, T. Taniguchi, K. Watanabe, P. Kim, A. Yacoby, and R.L. Walsworth, Imaging Viscous Flow of the Dirac Fluid in Graphene, Nature 583, 537(2020). H. Zhang*, M.J.H. Ku*, F. Casola, C.H. Du, T. van der Sar, M.C. Onbasli, C.A. Ross, Y. Tserkovnyak, A. Yacoby, and R.L. Walsworth, Spin-Torque Oscillation in a Magnetic Insulator Probed by a Single-Spin Sensor, Phys. Rev. B 102, 024404 (2020). For the most current list of publications, please visit the Publication Page of the Ku Group website. Department Resources Business Resources Events Materials Matter Magazine College Resources College of Engineering Diversity & Inclusion Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Site Professional & Continuing Studies IT Help Contact 102 DuPont Hall P: (302) 831-2401 MSEG Department 201 DuPont Hall P: (302) 831-2062 General Inquiry Graduate Program Inquiry 2019 University of Delaware Comments Legal Notices Accessibility Notice
