Laure Kayser | Materials Science & Engineering Coronavirus (COVID-19) update: Courses will be online through summer session.More information. Engineering Materials Science & Engineering About Us Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Honors & Awards Contact News & Events News Seminars Upcoming Events Anniversary Celebration People Advisory Committee Faculty Graduate Students Postdoctoral Researchers Staff Visiting Scholars Research Research Areas Research Centers Materials Matters Magazine Dissertation/Thesis Archive Students Undergraduate Major Undergraduate Minors 4+1 BS/MMSE Degrees 4+1 BS/MMSE FAQs 3+2 BS/MMSE Degree 3+2 BS/MMSE FAQs Graduate Program Course Descriptions MS Requirements PhD Requirements Apply Department Policy Dissertation/Thesis Archive Student Organizations Apply Visit Alumni & Friends Make a Gift What Engineering Needs Materials Matters Magazine Alumni List UD Connection Anniversary Celebration Select Page Laure Kayser Assistant Professor Department of Materials Science and Engineering Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry Email: lkayser@udel.edu Phone: (302) 831-2284 310 DuPont Hall Quick Links Awards Research Interests Representative Publications Curriculum Vitae Research Group Biosketch Dr. Kaysers research is focused on developing and understanding the next generation of soft organic electronics (conjugated polymers) to study or repair the nervous system. She is the leader of an interdisciplinary research group working at the intersection of organometallic chemistry, polymer synthesis, and materials and device engineering. Awards Best postdoc award, Department of NanoEngineering, UC San Diego, 2019 Invited speaker at the Emerging Materials Researchers Symposium, CSC, Edmonton, AB, 2018 Robert Zamboni chemistry prize, Department of Chemistry, McGill University, 2015 NSERC CREATE in Green Chemistry fellowship, 2014 Marcus Wallenberg Young Researcher Award, 2014 Research Interests According to the World Health Organization, nearly one sixth of the worlds population suffers from neurological disorders. These disorders of the nervous system include structural disorders (e.g., spinal cord injury), degeneration (e.g., Parkinsons and Alzheimers diseases), infections (e.g., meningitis), functional disorders (e.g., epilepsy), and vascular disorders (e.g., stroke). The study and/or repair of the nervous system requires electronic materials than can interact with the human body, whether with direct contactfor neuroscienceor indirectfor haptics and robotics. While basic research in soft electronics has significantly advanced in the last 5-10 years, these efforts have not yet been translated to benefit the society. Researchers in the Kayser lab aim at designing, synthesizing, and understanding the next generation of soft organic electronic materials to study or repair the nervous system.We are approaching challenges as an interdisciplinary research team, working at the intersection of organometallic chemistry, polymer synthesis, and materials and device engineering. Representative Publications L. V. Kayser and D. J. Lipomi,* Stretchable Conductive Polymers and Composites Based on PEDOT and PEDOT:PSS Adv. Mater. 2019, 201806133. L. V. Kayser, M. D. Russell, D. Rodriquez, S. N. Abuhamdieh, C. Dhong, S. Khan, A. N. Stein, J. Ramrez, and D. J. Lipomi,* RAFT Polymerization of an Intrinsically Stretchable Water-Soluble Block Copolymer Scaffold for PEDOT Chem. Mater. 2018, 30, 4459. L. V. Kayser, M. Vollmer, M. Welnhofer, H. Krikcziokat, K. Meerholz,* and B. A. Arndtsen,* Metal-Free, Multicomponent Synthesis of Pyrrole-Based -Conjugated Polymers from Imines, Acid Chlorides and Alkynes J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 10516. Department Resources Business Resources Events Materials Matter Magazine College Resources College of Engineering Diversity & Inclusion Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Site Professional & Continuing Studies IT Help Contact 102 DuPont Hall P: (302) 831-2401 MSEG Department 201 DuPont Hall P: (302) 831-2062 General Inquiry Graduate Program Inquiry 2019 University of Delaware Comments Legal Notices Accessibility Notice
