COE Resources | Faculty and Staff Resources College of Engineering Faculty & Staff Resources Administrative Support Research Support Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines Faculty and Staff Programs Teaching/Advising College Initiatives Other Helpful Links RESOURCES FORFACULTY & STAFF Administrative Support Research Support Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines Faculty and Staff Programs Teaching/Advising College Initiatives Other Helpful Links Welcome Welcome to the faculty and staff resources site for the College of Engineering! The purpose of this website is to provide current and prospective employees of our college with information related to frequently asked questions, forms and policies. Please use the Quick Links menu to navigate to section applicable to your needs. Administrative Support Research Support Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines Faculty and Staff Programs Teaching/Advising College Initiatives Other Helpful Links How can we help? Submit an IT Support Ticket Submit a Communications Ticket Submit a Web Request Ticket Administrative Support Deans Office. Where to find help within the Deans office. COE Facilities Space Allocation and Reallocation Policy College procedures for requesting new space. Building Access Request Form To request access to an office in a College of Engineering building while on-campus activities are restricted. COE Information Technology. Services include file and print sharing, data backup and archives, web hosting, computer labs, technology consulting, and repair and maintenance services. COE Communications. College support for websites and other communications needs COE Budget & Planning COE Procurement & Financial Processing COE Human Resources Human Resources. Onboarding information, benefits, and more. Webforms. Many tasks can be accomplished by completing a webform, including requesting sabbatical leave, conflict of interest disclosure, submitting a grade change, requesting to stop the tenure clock, or requesting a software license. See list of forms under Blanks tab. Webviews. Information about your pay and benefits is available in webviews. Research Support COE Research.describes research centers, focus areas, facilities, and undergraduate research. COE Research Administration UD Research Office. Funding opportunities, proposal writing and grant support, and much more. Research Training Internal Grants (e.g., GUR, UDRF) COE Machine Shop. Full-service research shop that provides machining, assembly, and fabrication services in support of research projects and instructional laboratories. Procedure for Creation and Approval of a Research Center or Institute COE Research Center Symposium, April 30, 2021 College Policies, Procedures and Guidelines College Bylaws. College constitution. COE Faculty & Staff Code of Conduct Procedure for Creation and Approval of a Research Center or Institute Promotion and Tenure. College guidelines for promotion and tenure. P&T Information for Candidates and Reviewers COE Expedited Tenure Procedures Notes from P&T Panels Promotion and Tenure Referee Sample Procedures for Faculty Peer Reviews and Contract Renewals Procedures for Faculty Leave Requests and Stop the Clock Notifications Criteria for a Named Professorship Procedures for Special Faculty Appointments Letter Templates referenced in the procedures Affiliated Professor Adjunct Professor Emeritus Professor Joint Appointments Joint Appointment MOU Research Professor Secondary Appointments Temporary Professor Visiting Professor Faculty Search Guidelines Faculty Recruitment Guidelines Internal and External Searches for Department Chairs COE Faculty search rubric examples Salary 1-1Summer Salary 1-2Direct Charge Faculty Salary 1-3Instructional Buy-Out Sponsored Programs 2-1Fixed price contracts-residual disposition 2-2Cost Share 2-3Delegated Authority 2-4Proposal Submission Graduate Tuition 3-1Graduate Tuition Scholarships COE Graduate Students 3-2Graduate Tuition Scholarship Policy FAQ 3-4Graduate Tuition 4+1 students College Infrastructure and Budget 4-1Procurement, Credit Card & Travel Policy 4-5Faculty Search Budget University and Department Policies, Procedures and Guidelines University policies Faculty Handbook. Key resource informing faculty of major policies and regulations of UD. Collective Bargaining Agreement available from Employee and Labor Relations. Agreement between the administration of UD and the UD American Association of University Professors (AAUP). Dual Career Assistance. Brochure describing the services the university offers to assist spouses and partners of faculty moving to UD. Family Friendly Policies. Brochure outlining key family friendly policies for faculty at UD. Frequently Asked Questions about FMLA for Faculty Home Purchase Assistance Program Graduate Student Policies. Policies from the Graduate College. Department Policies. Key policies for each Department are available, including: Bylaws Promotion and Tenure Documents Workload policies Merit metrics. Faculty and Staff Programs Faculty and Staff Awards. A number of prestigious awards are available to honor faculty and staff excellence. College of Engineering Faculty Mini-Grant ProgramThe COE faculty mini-grant program aims to help faculty manage unforeseen or difficult circumstances. Program Description Application Form Past Awardees Sambeeta Das, Mechanical Engineering, July 2021 Joshua Cashaback, Biomedical Engineering, July 2021 Adam Wickenheiser, Mechanical Engineering, August 2021 Lunch Scramble Sign-up Form COE Faculty Mentoring Program. The College of Engineering faculty mentoring program assists new faculty in identifying and obtaining the resources and support that will help them to be successful. AY21-22 Faculty & Post-Doc Mentoring Workshops AY20-21 Faculty & Post-Docs Mentoring Workshops & Recordings Mentoring Resources from UD ADVANCE National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity (NCFDD). Attend webinars, workshops, or multi-week courses. Or sign up for weekly emails with helpful tips on how to be an effective faculty member. UD has an institutional membership, so it is free for all faculty to join. Just go to the website and click join! UD Faculty Accountability Program. Creates small supportive communities to help facultysucceed. These groups of no more than four professors and a coach meet for an hour everyweek during the fall semester to set writing goals, report on progress, and discuss effectivestrategies for navigating some of the challenges of academia. COE Faculty and Staff monthly discussions of racism, diversity, and inclusion Child/Elder-care information Mental Health Resources for UD Employees Employee Health & Wellbeing Teaching/Advising Overview of UD Resources for Teaching Online The four core Faculty Commons partners (PCS, CTAL, ATS and the Library) prepared an Overview of UD Resources for Teaching Online to help our faculty feel even more comfortable teaching online by tapping existing resources at UD. The Overview has a quick reference chart of available training and other resources. It also has a where do I start if I want to learn that guides instructors to the most appropriate teaching resource. Resources include self-paced asynchronous classes, short-courses, longer institutes, 1:1 consultations, guides etc. Inclusive Teaching These six modules introduce evidence-based teaching and mentoring practices that support an inclusive climate. Office of Engineering Undergraduate Education includes information on undergraduate advisement, student development and support, and student organizations. Center for Teaching and Assessment of Learning (CTAL). Many services and resources to support your teaching, including help with course design, engaging students, assessing student learning, and soliciting feedback. Information for faculty about Undergraduate Summer Scholars Faculty Commons. Offers a variety of instructional assistance, including help with technology for the classroom. Visit the lounge in 116 Pearson Hall! Faculty Peer Observation Program Graduate Student Advising Resources. Helpful, easy-to-use tools to promote productive, professional relationships between faculty and their graduate student advisees. Undergraduate Advising Resources, including the Blue Hen Success platform (BHS), which helps UD leverage data and manage advising resources to improve student success. Center for Counseling and Student Development (CCSD) provides mental health services and promotes psychological wellbeing. Seans House is a mental health safe haven for young adults ages 14-24, created by the local non-profit SL24: Unlocke the Light. Career Center. Offers many resources to support students job searches and professional development. Registrars Office. Information on courses, grading, advising, transfer credit, and more. Academic Calendar College Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion describes the many on-going activities related to diversity and inclusion and how faculty can get involved. Global Engineering provides resources to help faculty engage globally. Industry Partnerships. Opportunities and support for engagement with industry partners. Entrepreneurship activities. Resources available to support entrepreneurship among faculty and students. K-12 Engineering Outreach. Information to help faculty conduct outreach in the K-12 arena. Other Helpful Links Office of the Provost. Chief academic officer. UD ADVANCE Institute. NSF-funded institute that aims to increase opportunities for UDs women faculty. It provides many resources to support faculty. Faculty Senate. Coordinates faculty governance at UD. American Association of University Professors (AAUP). UD chapter of the AAUP represents full-time faculty members on the issues of wages, salaries, hours, vacations, sick leave, grievance procedures, sabbatical leaves and other terms and conditions of employment as set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). UD Diversity Caucuses CT Caucus Quick LinksCollege of Engineering UD Home Page UD People Search COEEvents Faculty & Staff Recognition 2021 University of Delaware Comments Legal Notices Accessibility Notice
