Kathleen Thelen | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Kathleen Thelen Ford Professor of Political Science kthelen@mit.edu E53-435 617-324-3651 Website CV Political economy; historical institutionalism; labor politics; social policy; advanced industrial countries. Biography Kathleen Thelen is Ford Professor of Political Science at MIT. Her work focuses on the origins and evolution of political-economic institutions in the rich democracies. She is the author, among others, ofVarieties of Liberalization and the New Politics of Social Solidarity(2014) andHow Institutions Evolve(2004), and co-editor ofAdvances in Comparative Historical Analysis(with James Mahoney, 2015), andBeyond Continuity(with Wolfgang Streeck, 2005). Her awards include the Aaron Wildavsky Enduring Contribution Prize (2019); the Michael Endres Research Prize (2019), the Barrington Moore Book Prize (2015), the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the APSR (2005), the Mattei Dogan Award for Comparative Research (2006), and the Max Planck Research Award (2003). She was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2015 and to the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences in 2009. She was awarded honorary degrees at the Free University of Amsterdam (2013), the London School of Economics (2017), the European University Institute in Florence (2018), and the University of Copenhagen (2018). Thelen has served as President of the American Political Science Association (APSA), Chair of the Council for European Studies and as President of the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics. Thelen is General Editor, along with Eric Wibbels, of the Cambridge University Press Series in Comparative Politics, and a permanent external member of the Max Planck Institut fr Gesellschaftsforschung in Cologne, Germany. Research Thelen studies the origins, development, and effects of institutional arrangements that define distinctive "varieties of capitalism" across the rich democracies. Her work uses cross-national comparison and over-time analysis to identify the political-coalitional foundations on which different models of capitalism are founded, and to explain divergent trajectories of institutional development.Thelens most recent book,Varieties of Liberalization: The New Politics of Social Solidarity(Cambridge University Press 2014) examines trends in industrial relations, education and training, and labor market policy across five countries (Germany, Denmark, the United States, Sweden and the Netherlands). This book received the Barrington Moore Best Book Award of the ASAs Section on Comparative and Historical Research.Her previous book,How Institutions Evolve: The Political Economy of Skills in Germany, Britain, the United States and Japan(Cambridge 2004), was selected as winner of the 2006 Mattei Dogan Award of the Society for Comparative Research and co-winner of the 2005 Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the APSA.While her past research focused especially on the coordinated market economies of northern Europe, Thelens current work focuses on the study of the American political economy in comparative perspective. Thelen is also a prominent contributor to the literature on institutions and institutional change. Her most recent work in this field isAdvances in Comparative Historical Analysis(co-edited with James Mahoney, Cambridge 2015). Two previous volumes,Explaining Institutional Change (Cambridge 2010, with James Mahoney) andBeyond Continuity(Oxford 2005, with Wolfgang Streeck) critique dominant punctuated equilibrium models of change and provide an alternative historical-institutional framework for explaining modes of political change that are incremental but cumulatively transformative. This work was honored with the Aaron Wildavsky Enduring Contribution Award in 2019. Thelen is also a prominent contributor to the literature on institutions and institutional change. Her most recent work in this field is Advances in Comparative Historical Analysis (co-edited with James Mahoney, Cambridge 2015). Two previous volumes, Explaining Institutional Change (Cambridge 2010, with James Mahoney) and Beyond Continuity (Oxford 2005, with Wolfgang Streeck) critique dominant punctuated equilibrium models of change and provide an alternative historical-institutional framework for explaining modes of political change that are incremental but cumulatively transformative. Recent Publications Are we all Amazon Primed? Consumers and the Politics of Platform Power (co-authored with Pepper Culpepper) Comparative Political Studies (online June 2019). The Rise of the Platform Business Model and the Transformation of Twenty-First Century Capitalism (co-authored with K. Sabeel Rahman), Politics & Society (June 2019). The American Precariat: US Capitalism in Comparative Perspective, Perspectives on Politics 17: 1 (March 2019). Transitions to the Knowledge Economy in Germany, Sweden, and the Netherlands, Comparative Politics (January 2019). Regulating Uber: The Politics of the Platform Economy in Europe and the United States, Perspectives on Politics 16: 4 (December 2018). Diverging Solidarity: Labor Strategies in the New Knowledge Economy, (with Christian Lyhne Ibsen). World Politics 69: 3 (June 2017), 409-447 [lead article]. Gender in the Journals, (co-authored with Dawn Teele). PS: Political Science and Politics, April 2017. Change without Reform, Reform without Change: The Hidden Faces of Institutional and Policy Transformation, (co-authored with Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson) in James Mahoney and Kathleen Thelen, eds., Advances in Comparative Historical Analysis (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2015). Advances in Comparative Historical Analysis (co-edited with James Mahoney). New York: Cambridge University Press, 2015. Varieties of Liberalization: The New Politics of Social Solidarity. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2014. Teaching 17.154 Varieties of Capitalism and Social Inequality 17. 561 European Politics 17.150 American Political Economy in Comparative Perspective 17.951 Institutionalism and Institutional Change 17.156 Welfare and Capitalism in Western Europe News Rethinking American Political Economy November 22, 2021 London School of Economics Europe has kept down pandemic unemployment -- and the U.S. hasnt. Heres why. April 24, 2020 Anke Hassel and Kathleen Thelen The Washingont Post The U.S. approach has problems that go deeper a lack of funding. Prof. Kathy Thelen discusses the future of capitalism without profit with Antony Funnell on ABC's Future Tense June 2, 2019 Future Tense Some of the worlds largest and most influential companies make no profit. They are monopolistic in intent and very future focussed - they favour growth over profitability. So, do they represent a new stage of capitalism, or a dangerous aberration? How Can the US Reap the Benefits of Platform Companies While Protecting the Interests of Workers and Society? May 23, 2019 Peter Dunn MIT Political Science Ford Professor Kathleen Thelen gives APSA's 114th Presidential Address "The American Precariat: US Capitalism in Comparative Perspective" October 9, 2018 On August 30 September 2, 2018, the 114th APSA Annual Meeting & Exhibition by Kathleen Thelen was held in Boston to address the latest scholarship in political science while exploring the 2018 theme, Democracy and Its Discontents. On the German vocational program, it has survived and been adapted to massive changes in technology. Kathleen Thelen June 22, 2018 Russ Juskalian MIT Technology Review Prof. Kathleen Thelens research inspires political science publishers to take a closer look at publication gender bias June 12, 2018 Colleen Flaherty Inside Higher Ed A newPS: Political Science & Politicsreportinvolving self-audits at five major journals suggests that editorial practices are not, in fact, biased against women. While positive, the findings are also disconcerting, since it remains unclear as to why women are underrepresented as authors in esteemed journals in the discipline. Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Kathleen Thelen is Ford Professor of Political Science at MIT. Her work focuses on the origins and evolution of political-economic institutions in the rich democracies. She is the author, among others, ofVarieties of Liberalization and the New Politics of Social Solidarity(2014) andHow Institutions Evolve(2004), and co-editor ofAdvances in Comparative Historical Analysis(with James Mahoney, 2015), andBeyond Continuity(with Wolfgang Streeck, 2005). Her awards include the Aaron Wildavsky Enduring Contribution Prize (2019); the Michael Endres Research Prize (2019), the Barrington Moore Book Prize (2015), the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the APSR (2005), the Mattei Dogan Award for Comparative Research (2006), and the Max Planck Research Award (2003). She was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2015 and to the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences in 2009. She was awarded honorary degrees at the Free University of Amsterdam (2013), the London School of Economics (2017), the European University Institute in Florence (2018), and the University of Copenhagen (2018). Thelen has served as President of the American Political Science Association (APSA), Chair of the Council for European Studies and as President of the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics. Thelen is General Editor, along with Eric Wibbels, of the Cambridge University Press Series in Comparative Politics, and a permanent external member of the Max Planck Institut fr Gesellschaftsforschung in Cologne, Germany. Research Thelen studies the origins, development, and effects of institutional arrangements that define distinctive "varieties of capitalism" across the rich democracies. Her work uses cross-national comparison and over-time analysis to identify the political-coalitional foundations on which different models of capitalism are founded, and to explain divergent trajectories of institutional development.Thelens most recent book,Varieties of Liberalization: The New Politics of Social Solidarity(Cambridge University Press 2014) examines trends in industrial relations, education and training, and labor market policy across five countries (Germany, Denmark, the United States, Sweden and the Netherlands). This book received the Barrington Moore Best Book Award of the ASAs Section on Comparative and Historical Research.Her previous book,How Institutions Evolve: The Political Economy of Skills in Germany, Britain, the United States and Japan(Cambridge 2004), was selected as winner of the 2006 Mattei Dogan Award of the Society for Comparative Research and co-winner of the 2005 Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the APSA.While her past research focused especially on the coordinated market economies of northern Europe, Thelens current work focuses on the study of the American political economy in comparative perspective. Thelen is also a prominent contributor to the literature on institutions and institutional change. Her most recent work in this field isAdvances in Comparative Historical Analysis(co-edited with James Mahoney, Cambridge 2015). Two previous volumes,Explaining Institutional Change (Cambridge 2010, with James Mahoney) andBeyond Continuity(Oxford 2005, with Wolfgang Streeck) critique dominant punctuated equilibrium models of change and provide an alternative historical-institutional framework for explaining modes of political change that are incremental but cumulatively transformative. This work was honored with the Aaron Wildavsky Enduring Contribution Award in 2019. Thelen is also a prominent contributor to the literature on institutions and institutional change. Her most recent work in this field is Advances in Comparative Historical Analysis (co-edited with James Mahoney, Cambridge 2015). Two previous volumes, Explaining Institutional Change (Cambridge 2010, with James Mahoney) and Beyond Continuity (Oxford 2005, with Wolfgang Streeck) critique dominant punctuated equilibrium models of change and provide an alternative historical-institutional framework for explaining modes of political change that are incremental but cumulatively transformative. Recent Publications Are we all Amazon Primed? Consumers and the Politics of Platform Power (co-authored with Pepper Culpepper) Comparative Political Studies (online June 2019). The Rise of the Platform Business Model and the Transformation of Twenty-First Century Capitalism (co-authored with K. Sabeel Rahman), Politics & Society (June 2019). The American Precariat: US Capitalism in Comparative Perspective, Perspectives on Politics 17: 1 (March 2019). Transitions to the Knowledge Economy in Germany, Sweden, and the Netherlands, Comparative Politics (January 2019). Regulating Uber: The Politics of the Platform Economy in Europe and the United States, Perspectives on Politics 16: 4 (December 2018). Diverging Solidarity: Labor Strategies in the New Knowledge Economy, (with Christian Lyhne Ibsen). World Politics 69: 3 (June 2017), 409-447 [lead article]. Gender in the Journals, (co-authored with Dawn Teele). PS: Political Science and Politics, April 2017. Change without Reform, Reform without Change: The Hidden Faces of Institutional and Policy Transformation, (co-authored with Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson) in James Mahoney and Kathleen Thelen, eds., Advances in Comparative Historical Analysis (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2015). Advances in Comparative Historical Analysis (co-edited with James Mahoney). New York: Cambridge University Press, 2015. Varieties of Liberalization: The New Politics of Social Solidarity. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2014. Teaching 17.154 Varieties of Capitalism and Social Inequality 17. 561 European Politics 17.150 American Political Economy in Comparative Perspective 17.951 Institutionalism and Institutional Change 17.156 Welfare and Capitalism in Western Europe News Rethinking American Political Economy November 22, 2021 London School of Economics Europe has kept down pandemic unemployment -- and the U.S. hasnt. Heres why. April 24, 2020 Anke Hassel and Kathleen Thelen The Washingont Post The U.S. approach has problems that go deeper a lack of funding. Prof. Kathy Thelen discusses the future of capitalism without profit with Antony Funnell on ABC's Future Tense June 2, 2019 Future Tense Some of the worlds largest and most influential companies make no profit. They are monopolistic in intent and very future focussed - they favour growth over profitability. So, do they represent a new stage of capitalism, or a dangerous aberration? How Can the US Reap the Benefits of Platform Companies While Protecting the Interests of Workers and Society? May 23, 2019 Peter Dunn MIT Political Science Ford Professor Kathleen Thelen gives APSA's 114th Presidential Address "The American Precariat: US Capitalism in Comparative Perspective" October 9, 2018 On August 30 September 2, 2018, the 114th APSA Annual Meeting & Exhibition by Kathleen Thelen was held in Boston to address the latest scholarship in political science while exploring the 2018 theme, Democracy and Its Discontents. On the German vocational program, it has survived and been adapted to massive changes in technology. Kathleen Thelen June 22, 2018 Russ Juskalian MIT Technology Review Prof. Kathleen Thelens research inspires political science publishers to take a closer look at publication gender bias June 12, 2018 Colleen Flaherty Inside Higher Ed A newPS: Political Science & Politicsreportinvolving self-audits at five major journals suggests that editorial practices are not, in fact, biased against women. While positive, the findings are also disconcerting, since it remains unclear as to why women are underrepresented as authors in esteemed journals in the discipline. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
