Gene Skolnikoff | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Gene Skolnikoff Professor of Political Science Emeritus ebskol@mit.edu E53-373 617-253-3140 Science policy; public policy; technology; international affairs; proliferation; climate change. Biography Gene Skolnikoff is Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Skolnikoff has focused his research and teaching interests in the field of science and public policy, especially the interaction of science and technology with international affairs. This interest has covered a wide range of international subjects, including recent studies in global climate change and proliferation. He studied electrical engineering at MIT, followed by politics and economics at Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship, and political science at MIT once again. He has held a variety of posts, including serving on the White House staff in the Office of the Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology under Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy, and he played an active role as Senior Consultant to the White House Science Office under President Carter. Professor Skolnikoff served as Head of the Department from 1970-74, and was Director of the Center for International Studies from 1972 to 1987. He has been a consultant to government departments and international organizations, has held a variety of posts in professional societies, and was instrumental in the development of the science and public policy fields at universities in the U.S. and abroad. His research publications include Science, Technology and American Foreign Policy; International Imperatives of Technology; and a major book entitled: The Elusive Transformation: Science, Technology, and the Evolution of International Politics. Publications "Will Science and Technology Undermine the International Political System?" "International Governance in a Technological Age" "Implementing Environmental Commitments: How Governments, Industry and NGOs Put International Environmental Agreements into Practice" (with David G. Victor) "The Role of Science in Policy: The Climate Change Debate in the United States" A version of this article was published in Environment, June 1999, vol. 41, number 5, pages 16-20, 42-45. "Research Universities and National Security: Can Traditional Values Survive?" Lewis M. Branscomb lecture delivered at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Dec. 17, 2001. "Protecting University Research Amid National-Security Fears" "The Policy Gridlock on Global Warming" Biography Publications Biography Gene Skolnikoff is Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Skolnikoff has focused his research and teaching interests in the field of science and public policy, especially the interaction of science and technology with international affairs. This interest has covered a wide range of international subjects, including recent studies in global climate change and proliferation. He studied electrical engineering at MIT, followed by politics and economics at Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship, and political science at MIT once again. He has held a variety of posts, including serving on the White House staff in the Office of the Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology under Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy, and he played an active role as Senior Consultant to the White House Science Office under President Carter. Professor Skolnikoff served as Head of the Department from 1970-74, and was Director of the Center for International Studies from 1972 to 1987. He has been a consultant to government departments and international organizations, has held a variety of posts in professional societies, and was instrumental in the development of the science and public policy fields at universities in the U.S. and abroad. His research publications include Science, Technology and American Foreign Policy; International Imperatives of Technology; and a major book entitled: The Elusive Transformation: Science, Technology, and the Evolution of International Politics. Publications "Will Science and Technology Undermine the International Political System?" "International Governance in a Technological Age" "Implementing Environmental Commitments: How Governments, Industry and NGOs Put International Environmental Agreements into Practice" (with David G. Victor) "The Role of Science in Policy: The Climate Change Debate in the United States" A version of this article was published in Environment, June 1999, vol. 41, number 5, pages 16-20, 42-45. "Research Universities and National Security: Can Traditional Values Survive?" Lewis M. Branscomb lecture delivered at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Dec. 17, 2001. "Protecting University Research Amid National-Security Fears" "The Policy Gridlock on Global Warming" Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
