Charles Stewart III | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Charles Stewart III Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science cstewart@mit.edu E53-447 617-253-3127 Website CV Elections; Congress; American politics. Biography Charles Stewart III is the Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science at MIT, where he has taught since 1985, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His research and teaching areas include congressional politics, elections, and American political development. His current research about Congress touches on the historical development of committees, origins of partisan polarization, and Senate elections. His recent books of congressional research include Electing the Senate (2014, with Wendy J. Schiller), Fighting for the Speakership (2012, with Jeffery A. Jenkins), and Analyzing Congress (2nd ed., 2011). Since 2001, Professor Stewart has been a member of the Caltech/MIT Voting Technology Project, a leading research effort that applies scientific analysis to questions about election technology, election administration, and election reform. He is currently the MIT director of the project. Professor Stewart is an established leader in the analysis of the performance of election systems and the quantitative assessment of election performance. Working with the Pew Charitable Trusts, he helped with the development of Pews Elections Performance Index. Professor Stewart also provided advice to the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. His research on measuring the performance of elections and polling place operations is funded by Pew, the Democracy Fund, and the Hewlett Foundation. He recently published The Measure of American Elections (2014, with Barry C. Burden). With the support of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Democracy Fund, and the Joyce Foundation, in 2017 Professor Stewart established the MIT Election Data and Science Lab, which applies scientific principles to how elections are studied and administered. In 2020, he partnered with Professor Nate Persily of the Stanford Law School to establish the Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project. Professor Stewart has been recognized at MIT for his undergraduate teaching, being named to the second class of MacVicar Fellows in 1994, awarded the Baker Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, and the recipient of the Class of 1960 Fellowship. From 1992 to 2015, he served as Head of House of McCormick Hall, along with his spouse, Kathryn M. Hess. Research Fighting for the Speakership explores the development of the formal structure of political parties in Congress through the politics of electing Speakers of the House from 1789 to the present. This joint project with Jeffrey A. Jenkins (Virginia) combines historical narrative with modern analytical theory and statistical methods to explain how the House evolved from a series of ad hoc organizational arrangements to a resilient regime of legislative organization focused on party caucuses. Senate elections before 1914 is a joint project with Wendy Schiller (Brown) to document and explain the election of U.S. senators before the passage of the 17th amendment. This NSF-funded project involves uncovering data about these elections through the examination of state legislative journals and primary historical sources. The project combines historical narrative with statistical analysis of election dynamics. Measuring the performance of American elections is a project to assess the quality of elections through the development of metrics that describe how well American states perform all the functions that go into running elections well, ranging from registering voters to counting votes. This project involves collaborations with many scholars and institutions, particularly at Harvard, Caltech, and the Pew Center on the States Election Initiatives program Recent Publications Electing the Senate, with Wendy J. Schiller. (Princeton University Press, 2014). The Measure of American Elections, with Barry C. Burden, eds. (Cambridge University Press, 2014). Fighting for the Speakership, with Jeffrey A. Jenkins. (Princeton University Press, 2012). Analyzing Congress, W.W. Norton, 2nd edition. (W. W. Norton & Company, 2011) Committees in the U.S. Congress, with Garrison Nelson. (CQ Press, 2010). Teaching 17.202 Graduate Seminar in American Politics II (OCW) 17.251 Introduction to Congressional Politics (OCW) 17.261 Congress and the American Political System II (OCW) 17.307 Policy Seminar for Washington Interns 17.871 Political Science Laboratory (OCW) News 3 Questions: Administering elections in a hyper-partisan era October 26, 2021 School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Professor Stewart shares insights on the state of U.S. elections in advance of November voting Administering Elections in a Hyper-Partisan Era October 21, 2021 MIT SHASS Communications The Miracle and Tragedy of the 2020 U.S. Election April 1, 2021 Nathaniel Persily Charles Stewart III The Journal of Democracy The 2020 election was both a miracle and a tragedy. In the midst of a pandemic posing unprecedented challenges, local and state administrators pulled off a safe, secure, and professional election. This article discusses metrics of success in the adaptations that took placerecord-high turnout, widespread voter satisfaction, a doubling of mail voting without a concomitant increase in problems often associated with absentee ballots, and the recruitment of hundreds of thousands of new poll workers. However, a competing narrative of a stolen election led to a historically deep chasm between partisans in their trust of the election process and outcome. Now is the time to prepare for the next election emergency March 9, 2021 Michael Caudell-Feagan and Charles Stewart III The Hill The 2020 election has rightly been judged as well-managed, despite the enormous challenges posed by casting and counting millions of votes in the midst of a deadly pandemic and national lockdown. Election officials nationwide provided access to early voting and mail-in ballots and managed to keep poll workers and voters safe during an intense election with record turnout. They did a remarkable job but the outcome could have been much, much different. A Summary of the 2020 Election: Survey on the Performance of American Elections January 22, 2021 Charles Stewart III Medium This post reviews at a very high level some of the findings from the 2020 SPAE. MEDSL has published a longer summary of the initial findings, which may be downloaded from the labs website. What must the US do to sustain its democracy? January 20, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News Recent months have been tumultuous for U.S. democracy, in ways that are both novel and yet also connected to conflicts seen throughout the countrys past. MIT News spoke to several of the Institutes political scientists and historians, and asked them: What must the U.S. do to sustain the health of its democracy? Censure won't remove Trump, but it would hold him accountable. And cause big problems for Republicans. January 11, 2021 Charles Stewart III WBUR President Donald Trumps presidency has been unprecedented in so many ways that its unsurprising that its ending in a constitutional crisis. While theres surely not a consensus, its clear that most of official Washington, including many Republicans, considers Trump to be unsuited to hold office. The question is what to do about it. Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Charles Stewart III is the Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science at MIT, where he has taught since 1985, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His research and teaching areas include congressional politics, elections, and American political development. His current research about Congress touches on the historical development of committees, origins of partisan polarization, and Senate elections. His recent books of congressional research include Electing the Senate (2014, with Wendy J. Schiller), Fighting for the Speakership (2012, with Jeffery A. Jenkins), and Analyzing Congress (2nd ed., 2011). Since 2001, Professor Stewart has been a member of the Caltech/MIT Voting Technology Project, a leading research effort that applies scientific analysis to questions about election technology, election administration, and election reform. He is currently the MIT director of the project. Professor Stewart is an established leader in the analysis of the performance of election systems and the quantitative assessment of election performance. Working with the Pew Charitable Trusts, he helped with the development of Pews Elections Performance Index. Professor Stewart also provided advice to the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. His research on measuring the performance of elections and polling place operations is funded by Pew, the Democracy Fund, and the Hewlett Foundation. He recently published The Measure of American Elections (2014, with Barry C. Burden). With the support of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Democracy Fund, and the Joyce Foundation, in 2017 Professor Stewart established the MIT Election Data and Science Lab, which applies scientific principles to how elections are studied and administered. In 2020, he partnered with Professor Nate Persily of the Stanford Law School to establish the Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project. Professor Stewart has been recognized at MIT for his undergraduate teaching, being named to the second class of MacVicar Fellows in 1994, awarded the Baker Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, and the recipient of the Class of 1960 Fellowship. From 1992 to 2015, he served as Head of House of McCormick Hall, along with his spouse, Kathryn M. Hess. Research Fighting for the Speakership explores the development of the formal structure of political parties in Congress through the politics of electing Speakers of the House from 1789 to the present. This joint project with Jeffrey A. Jenkins (Virginia) combines historical narrative with modern analytical theory and statistical methods to explain how the House evolved from a series of ad hoc organizational arrangements to a resilient regime of legislative organization focused on party caucuses. Senate elections before 1914 is a joint project with Wendy Schiller (Brown) to document and explain the election of U.S. senators before the passage of the 17th amendment. This NSF-funded project involves uncovering data about these elections through the examination of state legislative journals and primary historical sources. The project combines historical narrative with statistical analysis of election dynamics. Measuring the performance of American elections is a project to assess the quality of elections through the development of metrics that describe how well American states perform all the functions that go into running elections well, ranging from registering voters to counting votes. This project involves collaborations with many scholars and institutions, particularly at Harvard, Caltech, and the Pew Center on the States Election Initiatives program Recent Publications Electing the Senate, with Wendy J. Schiller. (Princeton University Press, 2014). The Measure of American Elections, with Barry C. Burden, eds. (Cambridge University Press, 2014). Fighting for the Speakership, with Jeffrey A. Jenkins. (Princeton University Press, 2012). Analyzing Congress, W.W. Norton, 2nd edition. (W. W. Norton & Company, 2011) Committees in the U.S. Congress, with Garrison Nelson. (CQ Press, 2010). Teaching 17.202 Graduate Seminar in American Politics II (OCW) 17.251 Introduction to Congressional Politics (OCW) 17.261 Congress and the American Political System II (OCW) 17.307 Policy Seminar for Washington Interns 17.871 Political Science Laboratory (OCW) News 3 Questions: Administering elections in a hyper-partisan era October 26, 2021 School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Professor Stewart shares insights on the state of U.S. elections in advance of November voting Administering Elections in a Hyper-Partisan Era October 21, 2021 MIT SHASS Communications The Miracle and Tragedy of the 2020 U.S. Election April 1, 2021 Nathaniel Persily Charles Stewart III The Journal of Democracy The 2020 election was both a miracle and a tragedy. In the midst of a pandemic posing unprecedented challenges, local and state administrators pulled off a safe, secure, and professional election. This article discusses metrics of success in the adaptations that took placerecord-high turnout, widespread voter satisfaction, a doubling of mail voting without a concomitant increase in problems often associated with absentee ballots, and the recruitment of hundreds of thousands of new poll workers. However, a competing narrative of a stolen election led to a historically deep chasm between partisans in their trust of the election process and outcome. Now is the time to prepare for the next election emergency March 9, 2021 Michael Caudell-Feagan and Charles Stewart III The Hill The 2020 election has rightly been judged as well-managed, despite the enormous challenges posed by casting and counting millions of votes in the midst of a deadly pandemic and national lockdown. Election officials nationwide provided access to early voting and mail-in ballots and managed to keep poll workers and voters safe during an intense election with record turnout. They did a remarkable job but the outcome could have been much, much different. A Summary of the 2020 Election: Survey on the Performance of American Elections January 22, 2021 Charles Stewart III Medium This post reviews at a very high level some of the findings from the 2020 SPAE. MEDSL has published a longer summary of the initial findings, which may be downloaded from the labs website. What must the US do to sustain its democracy? January 20, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News Recent months have been tumultuous for U.S. democracy, in ways that are both novel and yet also connected to conflicts seen throughout the countrys past. MIT News spoke to several of the Institutes political scientists and historians, and asked them: What must the U.S. do to sustain the health of its democracy? Censure won't remove Trump, but it would hold him accountable. And cause big problems for Republicans. January 11, 2021 Charles Stewart III WBUR President Donald Trumps presidency has been unprecedented in so many ways that its unsurprising that its ending in a constitutional crisis. While theres surely not a consensus, its clear that most of official Washington, including many Republicans, considers Trump to be unsuited to hold office. The question is what to do about it. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
