Willard Johnson | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Willard Johnson Professor of Political Science Emeritus wjohnson@mit.edu E53-367 617-253-2952 Biography Willard Johnson is Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Johnson's interests cover a broad range of African and African American studies, from the politics, policy strategies, and role of external human and capital resources in African development, to aspects of African and African American history, culture, philosophy, and inter-ethnic and foreign relations. Professor Johnson is co-author of West African Governments and Volunteer Development Organizations, and the author of The Cameroon Federation: Political Integration in a Fragmentary Society, as well as articles and book chapters on issues of African development and foreign relations, and economic and political development of American inner-city areas. His current research concerns priorities for U.S.-Africa relations as well as patterns of historic relations between Africans and Native Americans. Professor Johnson founded and continues to be active in the leadership of The Boston Pan-African Forum, which is a membership organization devoted to promoting mutually beneficial relations between the United States and the countries and peoples of Africa and the African Diaspora. He founded and is the current President of The Kansas Institute of African American and Native American Family History (KIAANAFH) which is a non-profit membership organization to commemorate pioneer African American families of the Mid-West, to document the historic ties between African- and Native-Americans, and to promote their collaboration and common interests. He is featured alongside a hundred leaders, including Nelson Mandela and President Barack Obama, judged to be important to the Boston area communities of color, in Portraits of Purpose: A Tribute to Leadership. Publications "Building an American Constituency for Africa: Sustaining the Success of the National Summit on Africa" in Jemadari Kamara and Tony Menelik Van Der Meer, ed.s, The State of the Race - Creating our 21st Century: Where Do We Go From Here?, Boston: Diaspora Press, 2004, 349-368. "A Man of Courage and Integrity" in Walter A. Rosenblith, ed., Jerry Wiesner: Scientist, Statesman, Humanist, Cambridge: MA The MIT Press. 2003, 123-136. "Tracing Trails of Blood on Ice." Negro History Bulletin. Vol. 64 No.s 1-4, 2001. Video "Minorities in the United States" Professor Emeritus Willard Johnson, (see 1hr 17m. marker) Biography Publications Video Biography Willard Johnson is Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Johnson's interests cover a broad range of African and African American studies, from the politics, policy strategies, and role of external human and capital resources in African development, to aspects of African and African American history, culture, philosophy, and inter-ethnic and foreign relations. Professor Johnson is co-author of West African Governments and Volunteer Development Organizations, and the author of The Cameroon Federation: Political Integration in a Fragmentary Society, as well as articles and book chapters on issues of African development and foreign relations, and economic and political development of American inner-city areas. His current research concerns priorities for U.S.-Africa relations as well as patterns of historic relations between Africans and Native Americans. Professor Johnson founded and continues to be active in the leadership of The Boston Pan-African Forum, which is a membership organization devoted to promoting mutually beneficial relations between the United States and the countries and peoples of Africa and the African Diaspora. He founded and is the current President of The Kansas Institute of African American and Native American Family History (KIAANAFH) which is a non-profit membership organization to commemorate pioneer African American families of the Mid-West, to document the historic ties between African- and Native-Americans, and to promote their collaboration and common interests. He is featured alongside a hundred leaders, including Nelson Mandela and President Barack Obama, judged to be important to the Boston area communities of color, in Portraits of Purpose: A Tribute to Leadership. Publications "Building an American Constituency for Africa: Sustaining the Success of the National Summit on Africa" in Jemadari Kamara and Tony Menelik Van Der Meer, ed.s, The State of the Race - Creating our 21st Century: Where Do We Go From Here?, Boston: Diaspora Press, 2004, 349-368. "A Man of Courage and Integrity" in Walter A. Rosenblith, ed., Jerry Wiesner: Scientist, Statesman, Humanist, Cambridge: MA The MIT Press. 2003, 123-136. "Tracing Trails of Blood on Ice." Negro History Bulletin. Vol. 64 No.s 1-4, 2001. Video "Minorities in the United States" Professor Emeritus Willard Johnson, (see 1hr 17m. marker) Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
