Suzanne Berger | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Suzanne Berger John M. Deutch Institute Professor szberger@mit.edu E53-451 617-253-6640 CV Political economy; comparative politics; globalization; innovation; production; European politics; French politics. Biography Suzanne Berger is the inaugural John M. Deutch Institute Professor. Her current research focuses on politics and globalization. She recently co-chaired the MIT Production in the Innovation Economy project, and in September 2013 published Making in America: From Innovation to Market. She created the MIT International Science and Technology Initiative, and participated in the 1989 Made in America project at MIT. She wrote Made By Hong Kong and Global Taiwan (with Richard K. Lester). She is the author of Notre Premire Mondialisation and How We Compete. Her earlier work focused on political development (Peasants Against Politics) and the organization of interests (Dualism and Discontinuity in Industrial Societies and Organizing Interests in Western Europe). Suzanne Berger served as Head of the MIT Department of Political Science, founding chair of the SSRC Committee on West Europe, and Vice President of the American Political Science Association. She has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The French government has awarded her the Palmes Academiques, Chevalier de l'Ordre National du Merite and the Lgion d'Honneur. Research Politics of the First Globalization: In the forty years before World War One, the flows of capital, goods, and persons across national borders were higher than those the world would ever experience again until the end of the 1980s. In all industrial countries, political debates raged over whether and how to protect the domestic economy. The research analyzes the formation of coalitions that supported openness and those advocating protection and discovers how politics shaped interests on these critical issues. Production in the Innovation Economy (PIE): Berger chairs an MIT-wide faculty commission named to analyze the role of manufacturing in advanced industrial countries. Can the United States be a "services economy" specializing in R&D and system design? Or does the ability to sustain innovation and build new companies and jobs require production to take place in the U.S.? Graduate students and faculty from engineering, social sciences, life sciences, and management are collaborating in this research. Recent Publications Making in America: From Innovation to Market, (The MIT Press, August 2013) with the MIT Task Force on Production in the Innovation Economy. "Puzzles from the First Globalization," in Miles Kahler and David Lake, editors Politics in New Hard Times (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming). "German Crises Before the Crisis," Comparative European Politics (December 2010) vol 8, no. 4 pp. 468-76. "Choix et Contraintes: la France en fin de rgime," in Philippe Urfalino, ed., Intelligences de la France, Editions Ccile Dfaut, Presses Universitaires de France, 2010. "Troubleshooting Economic Narratives," in A. Hemerijck, B. Knapen, E. van Doome, Aftershocks: Economic Crisis and Institutional Choices, Amsterdam: University of Amsterdam Press, 2009. Discussion Forum, On Suzanne Berger, "How We Compete: What Companies Around the World Are Doing to Make it in Today's Global Economy", Response to W. Streeck, K. Thelen, J. Whitford, J. Zeitlin, in Socio-Economic Review, vol. 7, No. 3, 2009, 525-534. Teaching 17.100J Political Economy I: Theories of the State and the Economy 17.158 Political Economy of Western Europe 17.195/196 Globalization 17.526 Dissertation Workshop in Comparative Politics & Comparative Political Economy 17.528 Domestic Politics of Trade and Integration News Prof. Berger's research is featured in Reuters, "The robot apocalypse is hard to find in America's small and mid-sized factories" August 2, 2021 Timothy Aeppel Reuters Teaching Remotely: Political Economy May 12, 2020 Molly Ruggles MIT Open Learning Theories of the State and the Economy (17.100) is a graduate seminar, normally consisting of in-person lectures and facilitated discussions. Faced with quickly transitioning to online teaching and without prior experience, Professors Suzanne Berger and Michael Piore met the challenge in several ways. Suzanne Berger named inaugural John M. Deutch Institute Professor July 10, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office Political scientist awarded MITs highest faculty honor in new titled position. Prof. Suzanne Bergers work cited in What Economists Dont Know About Manufacturing March 29, 2018 William B. Bonvillian & Peter L. Singer The American Interest Suzanne Berger November 6, 2015 Panel 1: The contributions of MIT Political Science to national policy (Industrial Policy/PIE) Suzanne Berger leads a team that is rethinking what it means to be made in America October 11, 2011 Suzanne Berger: Research and collaboration October 1, 2011 Suzanne Berger: Research and Collaboration Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Suzanne Berger is the inaugural John M. Deutch Institute Professor. Her current research focuses on politics and globalization. She recently co-chaired the MIT Production in the Innovation Economy project, and in September 2013 published Making in America: From Innovation to Market. She created the MIT International Science and Technology Initiative, and participated in the 1989 Made in America project at MIT. She wrote Made By Hong Kong and Global Taiwan (with Richard K. Lester). She is the author of Notre Premire Mondialisation and How We Compete. Her earlier work focused on political development (Peasants Against Politics) and the organization of interests (Dualism and Discontinuity in Industrial Societies and Organizing Interests in Western Europe). Suzanne Berger served as Head of the MIT Department of Political Science, founding chair of the SSRC Committee on West Europe, and Vice President of the American Political Science Association. She has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The French government has awarded her the Palmes Academiques, Chevalier de l'Ordre National du Merite and the Lgion d'Honneur. Research Politics of the First Globalization: In the forty years before World War One, the flows of capital, goods, and persons across national borders were higher than those the world would ever experience again until the end of the 1980s. In all industrial countries, political debates raged over whether and how to protect the domestic economy. The research analyzes the formation of coalitions that supported openness and those advocating protection and discovers how politics shaped interests on these critical issues. Production in the Innovation Economy (PIE): Berger chairs an MIT-wide faculty commission named to analyze the role of manufacturing in advanced industrial countries. Can the United States be a "services economy" specializing in R&D and system design? Or does the ability to sustain innovation and build new companies and jobs require production to take place in the U.S.? Graduate students and faculty from engineering, social sciences, life sciences, and management are collaborating in this research. Recent Publications Making in America: From Innovation to Market, (The MIT Press, August 2013) with the MIT Task Force on Production in the Innovation Economy. "Puzzles from the First Globalization," in Miles Kahler and David Lake, editors Politics in New Hard Times (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming). "German Crises Before the Crisis," Comparative European Politics (December 2010) vol 8, no. 4 pp. 468-76. "Choix et Contraintes: la France en fin de rgime," in Philippe Urfalino, ed., Intelligences de la France, Editions Ccile Dfaut, Presses Universitaires de France, 2010. "Troubleshooting Economic Narratives," in A. Hemerijck, B. Knapen, E. van Doome, Aftershocks: Economic Crisis and Institutional Choices, Amsterdam: University of Amsterdam Press, 2009. Discussion Forum, On Suzanne Berger, "How We Compete: What Companies Around the World Are Doing to Make it in Today's Global Economy", Response to W. Streeck, K. Thelen, J. Whitford, J. Zeitlin, in Socio-Economic Review, vol. 7, No. 3, 2009, 525-534. Teaching 17.100J Political Economy I: Theories of the State and the Economy 17.158 Political Economy of Western Europe 17.195/196 Globalization 17.526 Dissertation Workshop in Comparative Politics & Comparative Political Economy 17.528 Domestic Politics of Trade and Integration News Prof. Berger's research is featured in Reuters, "The robot apocalypse is hard to find in America's small and mid-sized factories" August 2, 2021 Timothy Aeppel Reuters Teaching Remotely: Political Economy May 12, 2020 Molly Ruggles MIT Open Learning Theories of the State and the Economy (17.100) is a graduate seminar, normally consisting of in-person lectures and facilitated discussions. Faced with quickly transitioning to online teaching and without prior experience, Professors Suzanne Berger and Michael Piore met the challenge in several ways. Suzanne Berger named inaugural John M. Deutch Institute Professor July 10, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office Political scientist awarded MITs highest faculty honor in new titled position. Prof. Suzanne Bergers work cited in What Economists Dont Know About Manufacturing March 29, 2018 William B. Bonvillian & Peter L. Singer The American Interest Suzanne Berger November 6, 2015 Panel 1: The contributions of MIT Political Science to national policy (Industrial Policy/PIE) Suzanne Berger leads a team that is rethinking what it means to be made in America October 11, 2011 Suzanne Berger: Research and collaboration October 1, 2011 Suzanne Berger: Research and Collaboration Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
