M. Taylor Fravel | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD M. Taylor Fravel Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science Director of the MIT Security Studies Program fravel@mit.edu E40-471 617-324-0222 Personal website CV International relations; international security; military strategy; military doctrine; nuclear weapons; nuclear strategy; territorial disputes; maritime disputes; China; East Asia. Biography M. Taylor Fravel is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science and Director of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Taylor studies international relations, with a focus on international security, China, and East Asia. His books include Strong Borders, Secure Nation: Cooperation and Conflict in Chinas Territorial Disputes, (Princeton University Press, 2008) and Active Defense: China's Military Strategy Since 1949 (Princeton University Press, 2019). His other publications have appeared in International Security, Foreign Affairs, Security Studies, International Studies Review, The China Quarterly, The Washington Quarterly, Journal of Strategic Studies, Armed Forces & Society, Current History, Asian Survey, Asian Security, China Leadership Monitor, and Contemporary Southeast Asia. Taylor is a graduate of Middlebury College and Stanford University, where he received his PhD. He also has graduate degrees from the London School of Economics and Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. In 2016, he was named an Andrew Carnegie Fellow by the Carnegie Corporation. Taylor has been a member of the board of directors of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations and serves as the Principal Investigator for the Maritime Awareness Project. Recent Publications Shifts in Warfare and Party Unity: Explaining Changes in Chinas Military Strategy, International Security Vol 42, No. 3 (Winter 2017/2018) Threading the Needle: The South China Sea Disputes and U.S.-China Relations, in Robert Ross and ystein Tsunjo, eds., Strategic Adjustment and the Rise of China: Power and Politics in East Asia (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2017) Qualitative Investigations of Theoretical Models: The Value of Process Tracing, Journal of Theoretical Politics Vol. 29, No. 3 (2017) (with Peter Lorentzen and Jack Paine) Explaining Chinas Escalation in the Senkaku (Diaoyu) Islands Dispute, Global Summitry Vol. 2, No. 1 (June 2016) Assuring Assured Retaliation: Chinas Nuclear Strategy and U.S.-China Strategic Stability, International Security Vol. 40, No. 2 (Fall 2015) (with Fiona S. Cunningham) The PLA and National Security Decisionmaking: Insights from Chinas Territorial and Maritime Disputes, in Phillip Saunders and Andrew Scobell, eds., The PLAs Role in National Security Policy-Making (Palo Alto: Stanford University Press, 2015) Projecting Strategy: The Myth of Chinese Counter-Intervention, The Washington Quarterly Vol. 37, No. 4 (Winter 2015) (with Christopher P. Twomey) Things Fall Apart: Maritime Disputes and Chinas Regional Diplomacy, in Jacques deLisle and Avery Goldstein, eds., Chinas Challenges: The Road Ahead (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015) Territorial and Maritime Boundary Disputes in Asia, in Saadia Pekkanen, Rosemary Foot, and John Ravenhill, Oxford Handbook of the International Relations of Asia (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014) Teaching 17.950 Territorial Conflict 17.407/17.408 Chinese Foreign Policy: International Relations and Strategy (Syllabus) 17.433/17.434 International Relations of East Asia 17.418 Field Seminar in International Relations (Syllabus) 17.THT Thesis Research Design Seminar News Chinas nuclear arsenal is growing. What does that mean for U.S.-China relations? November 11, 2021 Fiona S. Cunningham and M. Taylor Fravel The Washington Post Prof. Fravel discusses the impact of COVID-19 on China's military with CSIS China Power Project Director Bonny Lin October 21, 2021 Bonny Lin Center for Strategic & International Studies It underscores Chinas determination to strengthen its deterrent, especially as amid the steep decline in U.S.-China relations and long-standing concerns about missile defense. M. Taylor Fravel October 19, 2021 Luis Martinez ABC News The most important element of [U.S.-China] competition globally is economics and economic capabilities, and not military power and military capabilities, which makes it different from the Cold War. M. Taylor Fravel October 19, 2021 Bethany Allen-Ebrahimian, Zachary Basu Axios Prof. Fravel speaks on CNN as China' denies nuclear-capable hypersonic missile October 18, 2021 Its absolutely unprecedented in the modern history of these flights that China has run into Taiwans Air Defence Identification Zone. Each day breaks the preceding record for the total number of flights on a single day. M. Taylor Fravel October 5, 2021 Julian Borger The guardian Where Does the China-India Border Dispute Stand? The Diplomat hosts Prof. Fravel and expert panel to discuss September 8, 2021 Over the past months, China and India have continued the slow process of disengaging along sections of their disputed border in Ladakh. Yet the two sides continue to disagree about who is responsible for the standoff of 2020-21, which culminated in a deadly clash in Galwan Valley in June 2020. How do things stand along the border today, and what are the implications for the bilateral relationship? Biography Publications Teaching News Biography M. Taylor Fravel is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science and Director of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Taylor studies international relations, with a focus on international security, China, and East Asia. His books include Strong Borders, Secure Nation: Cooperation and Conflict in Chinas Territorial Disputes, (Princeton University Press, 2008) and Active Defense: China's Military Strategy Since 1949 (Princeton University Press, 2019). His other publications have appeared in International Security, Foreign Affairs, Security Studies, International Studies Review, The China Quarterly, The Washington Quarterly, Journal of Strategic Studies, Armed Forces & Society, Current History, Asian Survey, Asian Security, China Leadership Monitor, and Contemporary Southeast Asia. Taylor is a graduate of Middlebury College and Stanford University, where he received his PhD. He also has graduate degrees from the London School of Economics and Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. In 2016, he was named an Andrew Carnegie Fellow by the Carnegie Corporation. Taylor has been a member of the board of directors of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations and serves as the Principal Investigator for the Maritime Awareness Project. Recent Publications Shifts in Warfare and Party Unity: Explaining Changes in Chinas Military Strategy, International Security Vol 42, No. 3 (Winter 2017/2018) Threading the Needle: The South China Sea Disputes and U.S.-China Relations, in Robert Ross and ystein Tsunjo, eds., Strategic Adjustment and the Rise of China: Power and Politics in East Asia (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2017) Qualitative Investigations of Theoretical Models: The Value of Process Tracing, Journal of Theoretical Politics Vol. 29, No. 3 (2017) (with Peter Lorentzen and Jack Paine) Explaining Chinas Escalation in the Senkaku (Diaoyu) Islands Dispute, Global Summitry Vol. 2, No. 1 (June 2016) Assuring Assured Retaliation: Chinas Nuclear Strategy and U.S.-China Strategic Stability, International Security Vol. 40, No. 2 (Fall 2015) (with Fiona S. Cunningham) The PLA and National Security Decisionmaking: Insights from Chinas Territorial and Maritime Disputes, in Phillip Saunders and Andrew Scobell, eds., The PLAs Role in National Security Policy-Making (Palo Alto: Stanford University Press, 2015) Projecting Strategy: The Myth of Chinese Counter-Intervention, The Washington Quarterly Vol. 37, No. 4 (Winter 2015) (with Christopher P. Twomey) Things Fall Apart: Maritime Disputes and Chinas Regional Diplomacy, in Jacques deLisle and Avery Goldstein, eds., Chinas Challenges: The Road Ahead (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015) Territorial and Maritime Boundary Disputes in Asia, in Saadia Pekkanen, Rosemary Foot, and John Ravenhill, Oxford Handbook of the International Relations of Asia (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014) Teaching 17.950 Territorial Conflict 17.407/17.408 Chinese Foreign Policy: International Relations and Strategy (Syllabus) 17.433/17.434 International Relations of East Asia 17.418 Field Seminar in International Relations (Syllabus) 17.THT Thesis Research Design Seminar News Chinas nuclear arsenal is growing. What does that mean for U.S.-China relations? November 11, 2021 Fiona S. Cunningham and M. Taylor Fravel The Washington Post Prof. Fravel discusses the impact of COVID-19 on China's military with CSIS China Power Project Director Bonny Lin October 21, 2021 Bonny Lin Center for Strategic & International Studies It underscores Chinas determination to strengthen its deterrent, especially as amid the steep decline in U.S.-China relations and long-standing concerns about missile defense. M. Taylor Fravel October 19, 2021 Luis Martinez ABC News The most important element of [U.S.-China] competition globally is economics and economic capabilities, and not military power and military capabilities, which makes it different from the Cold War. M. Taylor Fravel October 19, 2021 Bethany Allen-Ebrahimian, Zachary Basu Axios Prof. Fravel speaks on CNN as China' denies nuclear-capable hypersonic missile October 18, 2021 Its absolutely unprecedented in the modern history of these flights that China has run into Taiwans Air Defence Identification Zone. Each day breaks the preceding record for the total number of flights on a single day. M. Taylor Fravel October 5, 2021 Julian Borger The guardian Where Does the China-India Border Dispute Stand? The Diplomat hosts Prof. Fravel and expert panel to discuss September 8, 2021 Over the past months, China and India have continued the slow process of disengaging along sections of their disputed border in Ladakh. Yet the two sides continue to disagree about who is responsible for the standoff of 2020-21, which culminated in a deadly clash in Galwan Valley in June 2020. How do things stand along the border today, and what are the implications for the bilateral relationship? Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
