Lily L. Tsai | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Lily L. Tsai Ford Professor of Political Science l_tsai@mit.edu E53-413 617-253-6643 MIT GOV/LAB Political behavior of development; political economy of development; state-society relations; governance; corruption; accountability; political participation; citizen engagement; Chinese politics; African politics. Biography Lily L. Tsai is Ford Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Tsai is also the founder and Faculty Director of the MIT Governance Lab (MIT GOV/LAB), a group of political scientists working collaboratively with practitioners on research and innovation in citizen engagement and government accountability. Her research focuses on issues of accountability, governance, and political participation in developing country contexts, with particular emphasis on Asia and East Africa. Her book, Accountability Without Democracy: Solidary Groups and Public Goods Provision in Rural China, was published in Cambridge University's Studies on Comparative Politics and received the 2007-08 Dogan Award from the Society of Comparative Research for the best book published in the field of comparative research. Tsai has also published articles in the American Political Science Review, Comparative Politics, Comparative Political Studies, and World Development. Tsai received a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University in 2005, and is a graduate of Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley. Research Governance, accountability, and public goods provision Using both quantitative and qualitative data, my research seeks to identify the factors that lead to better governmental performance and accountability for the provision of public goods and services such as education and basic infrastructure in developing countries. Such factors include processes of decentralization, the implementation of democratic reforms, informal institutions and nongovernmental actors, and economic development. Social capital and civil society Scholars and policymakers often argue for the promotion of civil society and social capital as necessary for development and democratic consolidation. My research suggests that different types of social capital and social groups including those that link state and nonstate actors may have positive as well as negative impacts on social and political outcomes. Political attitudes and behavior in nondemocratic and transitional systems Using a variety of approaches survey research, case studies, in-depth interviews with individuals, and field experimentation I seek to understand how and when relatively powerless individuals in developing countries and transitional political systems decide to participate in politics and articulate their interests. Recent Publications Constructive Noncompliance in Rural China. Comparative Politics. April 2015. Does Information Lead to More Active Citizenship? Evidence from an Education Intervention in Rural Kenya (with Evan Lieberman and Daniel Posner). World Development, August 2014. "Friends or Foes? Nonstate Public Goods Providers and Local State Authorities in Nondemocratic and Transitional Systems," Studies in Comparative International Development, January 2011. "Quantitative Research and Issues of Political Sensitivity in Rural China," in Contemporary Chinese Politics: New Sources, Methods, and Field Strategies, edited by Allen Carlson, Mary Gallagher, Kenneth Lieberthal, and Melanie Manion, Cambridge University Press, July 2010. "Understanding the Falsification of Village Income Statistics," The China Quarterly, 196, December 2008. Accountability Without Democracy: Solidary Groups and Public Goods Provision in Rural China (Cambridge Studies on Comparative Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2007). Winner of the 2007-08 Dogan Award from the Society of Comparative Research for the best book published in the field of comparative research. "Solidary Groups, Informal Accountability, and Local Public Goods Provision in Rural China," American Political Science Review, vol.101, no.2 (May 2007), pp.355-372. Teaching 17.850 Graduate Scope and Methods 17.869 Political Science: Scope and Methods 17.905 Forms of Participation: Old and New 17.952 The Rise of the Modern State 17.955 Civil Society, Social Capital & the State in Comparative Perspective 17.955 State, Society, and Political Behavior in Developing Contexts 17.962 Second-Year Paper Seminar News Community policing in the Global South November 29, 2021 Stephanie M. McPherson MIT News Professor Fotini Christia is part of a team examining the challenges of implementing community policing across a range of countries. Punishment for the people October 12, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News By some lights, it seems curious how authoritarian leaders can sustain their public support while limiting liberties for citizens. Yes, it can be hard to overthrow an entrenched leader; that does not mean people have to like their ruling autocrats. And yet, many do. How authoritarian leaders maintain support August 5, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News How do authoritarian regimes sustain their popularity? A novel study in China led by MIT scholars shows that anticorruption punishments meted out by government authorities receive significant support among citizens who believe such actions demonstrate both competence and morally righteous leadership. Governance innovation boot camp culminates in pitch night July 7, 2021 Will Sullivan MIT News Designed by the MIT Governance Lab (MIT GOV/LAB) and Sierra Leones Directorate of Science, Technology and Innovation (DSTI), the boot camp taught strategies for identifying and understanding governance problems and finding creative, evidence-based solutions. A searching discussion about being Asian American at MIT May 24, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News A broad-ranging panel discussion on May 18 examined the complexities of Asian American and Pacific Islander identity and acceptance at MIT, while underscoring the need for collaborative work among groups to combat prejudice and create equity. A guide to when and how to build technology for social good April 20, 2021 Will Sullivan MIT News/MIT Governance Lab People frequently try to participate in political processes, from organizing to hold government to account for providing quality health care and education to participating in elections. But sometimes these systems are set up in a way that makes it difficult for people and government to engage effectively with each other. How can technology help? Research from MIT GOV/LAB is featured in Psychology Today September 15, 2020 Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Lily L. Tsai is Ford Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Tsai is also the founder and Faculty Director of the MIT Governance Lab (MIT GOV/LAB), a group of political scientists working collaboratively with practitioners on research and innovation in citizen engagement and government accountability. Her research focuses on issues of accountability, governance, and political participation in developing country contexts, with particular emphasis on Asia and East Africa. Her book, Accountability Without Democracy: Solidary Groups and Public Goods Provision in Rural China, was published in Cambridge University's Studies on Comparative Politics and received the 2007-08 Dogan Award from the Society of Comparative Research for the best book published in the field of comparative research. Tsai has also published articles in the American Political Science Review, Comparative Politics, Comparative Political Studies, and World Development. Tsai received a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University in 2005, and is a graduate of Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley. Research Governance, accountability, and public goods provision Using both quantitative and qualitative data, my research seeks to identify the factors that lead to better governmental performance and accountability for the provision of public goods and services such as education and basic infrastructure in developing countries. Such factors include processes of decentralization, the implementation of democratic reforms, informal institutions and nongovernmental actors, and economic development. Social capital and civil society Scholars and policymakers often argue for the promotion of civil society and social capital as necessary for development and democratic consolidation. My research suggests that different types of social capital and social groups including those that link state and nonstate actors may have positive as well as negative impacts on social and political outcomes. Political attitudes and behavior in nondemocratic and transitional systems Using a variety of approaches survey research, case studies, in-depth interviews with individuals, and field experimentation I seek to understand how and when relatively powerless individuals in developing countries and transitional political systems decide to participate in politics and articulate their interests. Recent Publications Constructive Noncompliance in Rural China. Comparative Politics. April 2015. Does Information Lead to More Active Citizenship? Evidence from an Education Intervention in Rural Kenya (with Evan Lieberman and Daniel Posner). World Development, August 2014. "Friends or Foes? Nonstate Public Goods Providers and Local State Authorities in Nondemocratic and Transitional Systems," Studies in Comparative International Development, January 2011. "Quantitative Research and Issues of Political Sensitivity in Rural China," in Contemporary Chinese Politics: New Sources, Methods, and Field Strategies, edited by Allen Carlson, Mary Gallagher, Kenneth Lieberthal, and Melanie Manion, Cambridge University Press, July 2010. "Understanding the Falsification of Village Income Statistics," The China Quarterly, 196, December 2008. Accountability Without Democracy: Solidary Groups and Public Goods Provision in Rural China (Cambridge Studies on Comparative Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2007). Winner of the 2007-08 Dogan Award from the Society of Comparative Research for the best book published in the field of comparative research. "Solidary Groups, Informal Accountability, and Local Public Goods Provision in Rural China," American Political Science Review, vol.101, no.2 (May 2007), pp.355-372. Teaching 17.850 Graduate Scope and Methods 17.869 Political Science: Scope and Methods 17.905 Forms of Participation: Old and New 17.952 The Rise of the Modern State 17.955 Civil Society, Social Capital & the State in Comparative Perspective 17.955 State, Society, and Political Behavior in Developing Contexts 17.962 Second-Year Paper Seminar News Community policing in the Global South November 29, 2021 Stephanie M. McPherson MIT News Professor Fotini Christia is part of a team examining the challenges of implementing community policing across a range of countries. Punishment for the people October 12, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News By some lights, it seems curious how authoritarian leaders can sustain their public support while limiting liberties for citizens. Yes, it can be hard to overthrow an entrenched leader; that does not mean people have to like their ruling autocrats. And yet, many do. How authoritarian leaders maintain support August 5, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News How do authoritarian regimes sustain their popularity? A novel study in China led by MIT scholars shows that anticorruption punishments meted out by government authorities receive significant support among citizens who believe such actions demonstrate both competence and morally righteous leadership. Governance innovation boot camp culminates in pitch night July 7, 2021 Will Sullivan MIT News Designed by the MIT Governance Lab (MIT GOV/LAB) and Sierra Leones Directorate of Science, Technology and Innovation (DSTI), the boot camp taught strategies for identifying and understanding governance problems and finding creative, evidence-based solutions. A searching discussion about being Asian American at MIT May 24, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News A broad-ranging panel discussion on May 18 examined the complexities of Asian American and Pacific Islander identity and acceptance at MIT, while underscoring the need for collaborative work among groups to combat prejudice and create equity. A guide to when and how to build technology for social good April 20, 2021 Will Sullivan MIT News/MIT Governance Lab People frequently try to participate in political processes, from organizing to hold government to account for providing quality health care and education to participating in elections. But sometimes these systems are set up in a way that makes it difficult for people and government to engage effectively with each other. How can technology help? Research from MIT GOV/LAB is featured in Psychology Today September 15, 2020 Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
