Bernardo Zacka | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Bernardo Zacka Class of 1943 Career Development Assistant Professor of Political Science nardoz@mit.edu E53-429 617-324-5652 Website Contemporary political theory; bureaucracy; ethnographic methods; architecture and politics; 20th century European political thought. Biography Bernardo Zacka is a political theorist with an interest in ethnographic methods. His research focuses on the normative challenges that arise in the course of public policy implementation. He is interested in understanding how the organizational environment in which public officials are situated affects their capacity to operate as sound and balanced moral agents. Zacka is also interested, more broadly, in normative political theory, architecture and urbanism, and 20th century European political thought. Zacka's first book, When the State Meets the Street: Public Service and Moral Agency, was published by Harvard University Press in 2017. It explores the everyday moral lives of the frontline public workers, or "street-level bureaucrats", who act as intermediaries between citizens and the state. It won the 2018 Charles Taylor book award from the Interpretive Methodologies and Methods group of the American Political Science Association, and it builds on Zacka's doctoral dissertation, which won the 2015 Robert Noxon Toppan prize for the best dissertation on a subject of political science at Harvard University. Prior to joining MIT, Zacka was a junior research fellow at Christ's College, Cambridge and a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Ethics in Society at Stanford. He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT (2005), and received his Ph.D. from the Department of Government at Harvard University in 2015. Publications Books "Political Theory and Architecture," Bloomsbury. 2020. "When the State Meets the Street: Public Service and Moral Agency." Harvard University Press. 2017 Peer Reviewed Articles Political Theory in an Ethnographic Key. American Political Science Review, First View. (with Matthew Longo) LINK "Fieldwork in Political Theory: Five Arguments for an Ethnographic Sensibility, British Journal of Political Science, published online in June 2017 (With Lisa Herzog) LINK Adhocracy, Security, and Responsibility: Revisiting Abu Ghraib a Decade Later, Contemporary Political Theory, 15, 38-57, 2016 LINK Travel as Ethos: Spatial Exercises in the Work of Tony Chakar, Grey Room, 50, 46-65, 2013 LINK Abu Ghraib, the Security Apparatus, and the Performativity of Power, American Ethnologist, 37 (2), 203-211, 2010 (With Steven Caton) LINK Book Chapters Whats in a Balcony? The In-Between as Public Good. Forthcoming, 2020. In Political Theory and Architecture, Duncan Bell and Bernardo Zacka (eds.), Bloomsbury. Introduction. Forthcoming, 2020. In Political Theory and Architecture, Duncan Bell and Bernardo Zacka (eds.), Bloomsbury. "What is Public Space For? Political Imaginaries and Policy Implications," in The Routledge Handbook of Ethics and Public Policy, edited by Annabelle Lever and Andrei Poama. Forthcoming in 2018. Street-Level Bureaucracy and Democratic Theory. 2019. In Research Handbook on Street-Level Bureaucracy, Peter Hupe (ed.), Edward Elgar. Book Reviews Review of The Policy State: An American Predicament, by Karen Orren and Stephen Skowronek, Contemporary Political Theory, 2018 LINK Review of Every Twelve Seconds: Industrialized Slaughter and the Politics of Sight, by Timothy Pachirat, Contemporary Political Theory, 13 (2), 2014 LINK The Two Bodies of the Bureaucrat, review of The Bureaucrat and the Poor, by Vincent Dubois, Public Administration Review, 72 (2), 302-305, 2012 Other Publications "Security" in the International Encyclopedia of Anthropology, ed. Hilary Callan. 2018. Teaching 17.000J/24.611J Political Philosophy 17.01J/24.04J Justice News Machine Anxiety March 4, 2019 SHASS The study of bureaucracy stands as a reminder not to dismiss human agency too rapidly. For all the fears it evoked about depersonalized rule, bureaucracy never eliminated human judgment. The same might be true for AI. This means that we need to investigate how individual and organizational actors mediate the adoption of new technologies, and how they are in turn transformed by them. This calls for empirical social science. A bottom-up view of the state November 7, 2018 Leda Zimmerman MIT Department of Political Science An endless wait in a crowded room. The official's impassive expression handling a client in need... Bernardo Zacka '05, a newly appointed assistant professor of political science, is well acquainted with exasperating and sometimes infuriating public service bureaucracies. Biography Publications Teaching News Biography Bernardo Zacka is a political theorist with an interest in ethnographic methods. His research focuses on the normative challenges that arise in the course of public policy implementation. He is interested in understanding how the organizational environment in which public officials are situated affects their capacity to operate as sound and balanced moral agents. Zacka is also interested, more broadly, in normative political theory, architecture and urbanism, and 20th century European political thought. Zacka's first book, When the State Meets the Street: Public Service and Moral Agency, was published by Harvard University Press in 2017. It explores the everyday moral lives of the frontline public workers, or "street-level bureaucrats", who act as intermediaries between citizens and the state. It won the 2018 Charles Taylor book award from the Interpretive Methodologies and Methods group of the American Political Science Association, and it builds on Zacka's doctoral dissertation, which won the 2015 Robert Noxon Toppan prize for the best dissertation on a subject of political science at Harvard University. Prior to joining MIT, Zacka was a junior research fellow at Christ's College, Cambridge and a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Ethics in Society at Stanford. He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT (2005), and received his Ph.D. from the Department of Government at Harvard University in 2015. Publications Books "Political Theory and Architecture," Bloomsbury. 2020. "When the State Meets the Street: Public Service and Moral Agency." Harvard University Press. 2017 Peer Reviewed Articles Political Theory in an Ethnographic Key. American Political Science Review, First View. (with Matthew Longo) LINK "Fieldwork in Political Theory: Five Arguments for an Ethnographic Sensibility, British Journal of Political Science, published online in June 2017 (With Lisa Herzog) LINK Adhocracy, Security, and Responsibility: Revisiting Abu Ghraib a Decade Later, Contemporary Political Theory, 15, 38-57, 2016 LINK Travel as Ethos: Spatial Exercises in the Work of Tony Chakar, Grey Room, 50, 46-65, 2013 LINK Abu Ghraib, the Security Apparatus, and the Performativity of Power, American Ethnologist, 37 (2), 203-211, 2010 (With Steven Caton) LINK Book Chapters Whats in a Balcony? The In-Between as Public Good. Forthcoming, 2020. In Political Theory and Architecture, Duncan Bell and Bernardo Zacka (eds.), Bloomsbury. Introduction. Forthcoming, 2020. In Political Theory and Architecture, Duncan Bell and Bernardo Zacka (eds.), Bloomsbury. "What is Public Space For? Political Imaginaries and Policy Implications," in The Routledge Handbook of Ethics and Public Policy, edited by Annabelle Lever and Andrei Poama. Forthcoming in 2018. Street-Level Bureaucracy and Democratic Theory. 2019. In Research Handbook on Street-Level Bureaucracy, Peter Hupe (ed.), Edward Elgar. Book Reviews Review of The Policy State: An American Predicament, by Karen Orren and Stephen Skowronek, Contemporary Political Theory, 2018 LINK Review of Every Twelve Seconds: Industrialized Slaughter and the Politics of Sight, by Timothy Pachirat, Contemporary Political Theory, 13 (2), 2014 LINK The Two Bodies of the Bureaucrat, review of The Bureaucrat and the Poor, by Vincent Dubois, Public Administration Review, 72 (2), 302-305, 2012 Other Publications "Security" in the International Encyclopedia of Anthropology, ed. Hilary Callan. 2018. Teaching 17.000J/24.611J Political Philosophy 17.01J/24.04J Justice News Machine Anxiety March 4, 2019 SHASS The study of bureaucracy stands as a reminder not to dismiss human agency too rapidly. For all the fears it evoked about depersonalized rule, bureaucracy never eliminated human judgment. The same might be true for AI. This means that we need to investigate how individual and organizational actors mediate the adoption of new technologies, and how they are in turn transformed by them. This calls for empirical social science. A bottom-up view of the state November 7, 2018 Leda Zimmerman MIT Department of Political Science An endless wait in a crowded room. The official's impassive expression handling a client in need... Bernardo Zacka '05, a newly appointed assistant professor of political science, is well acquainted with exasperating and sometimes infuriating public service bureaucracies. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
