Devin Caughey | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Devin Caughey Associate Professor of Political Science caughey@mit.edu E53-463 617-324-4085 Website CV American political development; Southern politics; representation; political parties; Congress; state politics; latent-variable models; survey weighting; regression-discontinuity designs; permutation inference. Biography Devin Caughey is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. Caughey earned his PhD at Berkeley under the supervision of Eric Schickler. He previously studied history at Yale and Cambridge. Devin Caughey is primarily interested in the fields of American Politics and American Political Development, with a side interest in Political Methodology. His current book project, "Representation without Parties: Reconsidering the One-Party South," examines the ideological evolution and diversity of Southern members of Congress and their relationship to public opinion in the region. Caughey's work has appeared in the journals Studies in American Political Development and Political Analysis, which in 2012 named his "Elections and the Regression Discontinuity Design" (with Jasjeet Sekhon) an Editor's Choice Article for its contribution to political methodology. The article was also awarded the 2012 Warren Miller Prize by the Society for Political Methodology. Research Projects Elections and the Regression-Discontinuity Design: Lessons from Close U.S. House Races, 19422008 Public Opinion, Organized Labor, and the Limits of New Deal Liberalism, 19361945 Honor and War: Using Southern Presidents to Identify Reputational Effects in International Conflict Defining, Mapping, and Measuring Bureaucratic Autonomy Dissertation Congress, Public Opinion, and Representation in the One-Party South, 1930s1960s Recent Publications "Elections and the Regression Discontinuity Design: Lessons from Close U.S. House Races, 19422008." Political Analysis 19(4): 385408. 2011. (with Jasjeet S. Sekhon). "Public Opinion, Organized Labor, and the Limits of New Deal Liberalism, 19361945." Studies in American Political Development 25(2): 162189. 2011. (with Eric Schickler). Teaching 17.263/4 Electoral Politics News Giving the people what they want? February 21, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News Research by MIT political scientist Devin Caughey shows that over time, elected politicians in the U.S. are generally responsive to the opinions of voters. What must the US do to sustain its democracy? January 20, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News Recent months have been tumultuous for U.S. democracy, in ways that are both novel and yet also connected to conflicts seen throughout the countrys past. MIT News spoke to several of the Institutes political scientists and historians, and asked them: What must the U.S. do to sustain the health of its democracy? Devin Caughey receives the Leon Epstein Award July 8, 2019 MIT Department of Political Science We are pleased to announce that Silverman (1968) Family Career Development Associate Professor Devin Caughey's book, The Unsolid South, has been awarded the Leon Epstein Outstanding Book Award by the Political Organizations and Parties Section of APSA. Public opinion study in Europe shows drop in anti-immigration sentiment, among other changes May 16, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Why the solid South of midcentury U.S. politics was not so solid. September 7, 2018 Peter Dizikes MIT News What really hasnt been looked at is the connection between mass politics and public opinion, on the one hand, and congressional behavior, on the other. People Power May 11, 2018 Peter Dizikes MIT News In politics, your voices make a difference. At least at the state level of U.S. politics, that is. A new study co-authored by an MIT political scientist shows that state policies in the U.S. from 1936 through 2014 have been responsive to public opinion and have become even more aligned with it in recent decades. Mapping the history of U.S. state politics December 1, 2015 Peter Dizikes MIT News U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis, in a 1932 opinion, wrote that a state could be a laboratory for policy, and try novel social and economic experiments on its own. We have since turned those words into todays common political phrase that the 50 U.S. states are laboratories of democracy. Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Devin Caughey is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. Caughey earned his PhD at Berkeley under the supervision of Eric Schickler. He previously studied history at Yale and Cambridge. Devin Caughey is primarily interested in the fields of American Politics and American Political Development, with a side interest in Political Methodology. His current book project, "Representation without Parties: Reconsidering the One-Party South," examines the ideological evolution and diversity of Southern members of Congress and their relationship to public opinion in the region. Caughey's work has appeared in the journals Studies in American Political Development and Political Analysis, which in 2012 named his "Elections and the Regression Discontinuity Design" (with Jasjeet Sekhon) an Editor's Choice Article for its contribution to political methodology. The article was also awarded the 2012 Warren Miller Prize by the Society for Political Methodology. Research Projects Elections and the Regression-Discontinuity Design: Lessons from Close U.S. House Races, 19422008 Public Opinion, Organized Labor, and the Limits of New Deal Liberalism, 19361945 Honor and War: Using Southern Presidents to Identify Reputational Effects in International Conflict Defining, Mapping, and Measuring Bureaucratic Autonomy Dissertation Congress, Public Opinion, and Representation in the One-Party South, 1930s1960s Recent Publications "Elections and the Regression Discontinuity Design: Lessons from Close U.S. House Races, 19422008." Political Analysis 19(4): 385408. 2011. (with Jasjeet S. Sekhon). "Public Opinion, Organized Labor, and the Limits of New Deal Liberalism, 19361945." Studies in American Political Development 25(2): 162189. 2011. (with Eric Schickler). Teaching 17.263/4 Electoral Politics News Giving the people what they want? February 21, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News Research by MIT political scientist Devin Caughey shows that over time, elected politicians in the U.S. are generally responsive to the opinions of voters. What must the US do to sustain its democracy? January 20, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News Recent months have been tumultuous for U.S. democracy, in ways that are both novel and yet also connected to conflicts seen throughout the countrys past. MIT News spoke to several of the Institutes political scientists and historians, and asked them: What must the U.S. do to sustain the health of its democracy? Devin Caughey receives the Leon Epstein Award July 8, 2019 MIT Department of Political Science We are pleased to announce that Silverman (1968) Family Career Development Associate Professor Devin Caughey's book, The Unsolid South, has been awarded the Leon Epstein Outstanding Book Award by the Political Organizations and Parties Section of APSA. Public opinion study in Europe shows drop in anti-immigration sentiment, among other changes May 16, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Why the solid South of midcentury U.S. politics was not so solid. September 7, 2018 Peter Dizikes MIT News What really hasnt been looked at is the connection between mass politics and public opinion, on the one hand, and congressional behavior, on the other. People Power May 11, 2018 Peter Dizikes MIT News In politics, your voices make a difference. At least at the state level of U.S. politics, that is. A new study co-authored by an MIT political scientist shows that state policies in the U.S. from 1936 through 2014 have been responsive to public opinion and have become even more aligned with it in recent decades. Mapping the history of U.S. state politics December 1, 2015 Peter Dizikes MIT News U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis, in a 1932 opinion, wrote that a state could be a laboratory for policy, and try novel social and economic experiments on its own. We have since turned those words into todays common political phrase that the 50 U.S. states are laboratories of democracy. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
