In Song Kim | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD In Song Kim Associate Professor of Political Science insong@mit.edu E53-407 617-253-3138 Personal Website CV Political methodology; international trade; political economy; big data; machine learning; game theory; lobbying; lobbyview; visualization; dimension reduction. Biography In Song Kim is Associate Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He completed his Ph.D. in Politics at Princeton University. His research interests include International Political Economy and Formal and Quantitative Methodology. His research focuses on the political economy of lobbying and campaign donation, estimation of political preferences, and causal inference with panel data. His dissertation won the 2015Mancur Olson Awardfor the Best Dissertation in political economy. An article version of this research received the 2018Michael Wallerstein Awardfor the best published article in political economy. In Song Kim conducts Big Data analysis of international trade. He is developing methods for dimension reduction and visualization to investigate how the structure of international trade around the globe has evolved over time. His work has appeared and forthcoming in various academic journals, including theAmerican Political Science Review, American Journal of Political Science, Annual Review of Political Science, International Organization, International Studies Quarterly,Political Analysis,andThe Journal of Politics. Research Professor Kim is broadly interested in international political economy and political methodology. His current research interests include firm-level lobbying on trade policies, product-level trade policy-making, and the interaction between domestic political institutions and international trade. Professor Kim is also interested in the development of quantitative methods for causal inference with panel data, "big data" analysis, network models, and estimating political actors' preferred policy outcomes. He is developing a large-scale database on lobbying supported by the National Science Foundation. Recent Publications "Political Cleavages within Industry: Firm-level Lobbying for Trade Liberalization,"American Political Science Review(2017), Vol. 111, No. 1, pp. 1-20. (lead article) "Estimating Spatial Preferences from Votes and Text,"Political Analysis(2018), Vol. 26, No. 2, pp.210--229(with John Londregan and Marc Ratkovic) "When Should We Use Unit Fixed Effects Regression Models for Causal Inference with Longitudinal Data?"American Journal of Political Science, (2019) Vol. 63, No. 2, pp. 467--490 (with Kosuke Imai) "Firms in Trade and Trade Politics,"Annual Review of Political Science(2019), Vol. 22, pp. 399-417. (with Iain Osgood) "Measuring Trade Profile with Granular Product-level Trade Data," American Journal of Political Science, Forthcoming (with Steven Liao and Kosuke Imai) Teaching 17.800 Quantitative Research Methods I: Regression 17.804 Quantitative Research Methods III: Generalized Linear Models and Extensions 17.806 Quantitative Research Methods IV: Advanced Topics 17.810/811 Game Theory and Political Theory 17.835 Machine Learning and Data Science in Politics News Political scientist In Song Kim receives the 2021 Levitan Prize February 10, 2021 MIT SHASS Communications In his new book, Kim aims to "provides a big data analysis of contemporary trade policy-making, facilitating not only academic research of trade with a new unit of analysis but also public awareness of product-specific trade negotiations such as the current China-U.S. trade dispute. In Song Kim awarded a 2020-2021 Russell Sage Presidential Authority grant February 21, 2020 Best New Dataset Award January 21, 2020 MIT Department of Political Science Profesor In Song Kim is the recipient of the International Political Economy Societys Best New Dataset Award for his LobbyView database. 3 Questions: Database shines a bright light on Washington lobbying September 13, 2018 Peter Dizikes MIT News Follow the money. Its a famous phrase from the Watergate era, but it applies to everyday life in modern Washington as well. That advice just got easier for everyone to carry out, thanks to the launch of LobbyView.org, a new public database created by MIT political scientist In Song Kim Machine Learning and Data Science in Politics May 18, 2018 In Song Kim receives Michael Wallerstein Award April 2, 2018 MIT Political Science In Song Kim: Bringing big data to bear on international trade September 9, 2014 Eric Smalley MIT News Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography In Song Kim is Associate Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He completed his Ph.D. in Politics at Princeton University. His research interests include International Political Economy and Formal and Quantitative Methodology. His research focuses on the political economy of lobbying and campaign donation, estimation of political preferences, and causal inference with panel data. His dissertation won the 2015Mancur Olson Awardfor the Best Dissertation in political economy. An article version of this research received the 2018Michael Wallerstein Awardfor the best published article in political economy. In Song Kim conducts Big Data analysis of international trade. He is developing methods for dimension reduction and visualization to investigate how the structure of international trade around the globe has evolved over time. His work has appeared and forthcoming in various academic journals, including theAmerican Political Science Review, American Journal of Political Science, Annual Review of Political Science, International Organization, International Studies Quarterly,Political Analysis,andThe Journal of Politics. Research Professor Kim is broadly interested in international political economy and political methodology. His current research interests include firm-level lobbying on trade policies, product-level trade policy-making, and the interaction between domestic political institutions and international trade. Professor Kim is also interested in the development of quantitative methods for causal inference with panel data, "big data" analysis, network models, and estimating political actors' preferred policy outcomes. He is developing a large-scale database on lobbying supported by the National Science Foundation. Recent Publications "Political Cleavages within Industry: Firm-level Lobbying for Trade Liberalization,"American Political Science Review(2017), Vol. 111, No. 1, pp. 1-20. (lead article) "Estimating Spatial Preferences from Votes and Text,"Political Analysis(2018), Vol. 26, No. 2, pp.210--229(with John Londregan and Marc Ratkovic) "When Should We Use Unit Fixed Effects Regression Models for Causal Inference with Longitudinal Data?"American Journal of Political Science, (2019) Vol. 63, No. 2, pp. 467--490 (with Kosuke Imai) "Firms in Trade and Trade Politics,"Annual Review of Political Science(2019), Vol. 22, pp. 399-417. (with Iain Osgood) "Measuring Trade Profile with Granular Product-level Trade Data," American Journal of Political Science, Forthcoming (with Steven Liao and Kosuke Imai) Teaching 17.800 Quantitative Research Methods I: Regression 17.804 Quantitative Research Methods III: Generalized Linear Models and Extensions 17.806 Quantitative Research Methods IV: Advanced Topics 17.810/811 Game Theory and Political Theory 17.835 Machine Learning and Data Science in Politics News Political scientist In Song Kim receives the 2021 Levitan Prize February 10, 2021 MIT SHASS Communications In his new book, Kim aims to "provides a big data analysis of contemporary trade policy-making, facilitating not only academic research of trade with a new unit of analysis but also public awareness of product-specific trade negotiations such as the current China-U.S. trade dispute. In Song Kim awarded a 2020-2021 Russell Sage Presidential Authority grant February 21, 2020 Best New Dataset Award January 21, 2020 MIT Department of Political Science Profesor In Song Kim is the recipient of the International Political Economy Societys Best New Dataset Award for his LobbyView database. 3 Questions: Database shines a bright light on Washington lobbying September 13, 2018 Peter Dizikes MIT News Follow the money. Its a famous phrase from the Watergate era, but it applies to everyday life in modern Washington as well. That advice just got easier for everyone to carry out, thanks to the launch of LobbyView.org, a new public database created by MIT political scientist In Song Kim Machine Learning and Data Science in Politics May 18, 2018 In Song Kim receives Michael Wallerstein Award April 2, 2018 MIT Political Science In Song Kim: Bringing big data to bear on international trade September 9, 2014 Eric Smalley MIT News Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
