Evan Lieberman | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Evan Lieberman Total Professor of Political Science and Contemporary Africa evanlieb@mit.edu E53-409 617-324-1642 Website CV Political economy of development; ethnicity / identity; public policy; research methods; accountability; governance; democracy; state-building; Africa. Biography Evan Lieberman is the Total Professor of Political Science and Contemporary Africa. He conducts research in the field of comparative politics, with a focus on development and ethnic conflict in sub-Saharan Africa. Lieberman received his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. He is the author of "Boundaries of Contagion: How Ethnic Politics have Shaped Government Responses to AIDS" (Princeton University Press 2009) and "Race and Regionalism in the Politics of Taxation in Brazil and South Africa" (Cambridge University Press 2003), and has published articles in the American Political Science Review, Annual Review of Political Science, Comparative Political Studies, Politics & Society, Studies in Comparative International Development, and World Development. Evan Lieberman is recipient of the 2014 David Collier Mid-Career Award, the 2010 Giovanni Sartori Book prize, the 2004 Mattei Dogan book prize, the 2002 Gabriel A. Almond dissertation award; and the 2002 Mary Parker Follett article award. He was a Fulbright fellow in South Africa in 1997-98, and a Robert Wood Johnson health policy scholar at Yale University in 2000-02. Previously, he was Professor and Associate Chair in the Department of Politics at Princeton University (2002-14). Research Evan Lieberman employs a range of empirical research methods to better understand the causes and consequences of policy-making, conflict, and human development especially in sub-Saharan Africa. His current projects include a study of the drivers of local and polycentric service delivery in Southern Africa; field experiments investigating the relationship between information provision and citizenship in East Africa; conceptual, case study, and statistical analyses of the institutionalization of ethnic categories around the world; and survey experiments on social identity and perceptions of health-related risks. He is also working on problems of research design and multi-method causal inference in comparative research. Select Recent Publications Nuanced Accountability: Voter Responses to Service Delivery in Southern Africa, (with Daniel de Kadt).British Journal of Political Science, December 2017, 1-31. Census Enumeration and Group Conflict: A Global Analysis of the Consequences of Counting (with Prerna Singh). World Politics January 2017, 1-53. Data and code are available at Harvard Dataverse (DOI:doi:10.7910/DVN/KJV6OJ). Can the Biomedical Research Cycle Be a Model for Political Science?Perspectives on Politics, vol. 14, no. 4, 2016, pp. 10541066. Response to Symposium Reviewers.Perspectives on Politics, vol. 14, no. 4, 2016, pp. 10801082. For a complete list, please visit https://evanlieberman.org/publications/ News Evan Lieberman named faculty director of MISTI, MIT's pioneering international education program November 3, 2021 Center for International Studies The Center is thrilled to announce that Evan Lieberman, Total Professor of Political Science and Contemporary Africa, will become faculty director of the MIT Science and Technology Initiatives (MISTI), effective November 1, 2021. Prof. Lieberman speaks with GBH News on Differences In How Social And Racial Groups Perceive COVID-19 Health Disparities May 13, 2021 Craig LeMoult, Arun Rath, Amanda Beland In It Together, GBH New Study Shows Differences In How Social And Racial Groups Perceive COVID-19 Health Disparities Study reveals mixed reactions about Covid-19 health disparities May 10, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News A new study co-authored by an MIT professor identifies different social groups have different reactions to the health inequitiesgenerated by Covid-19. How messaging on COVID-19 disparities affects policy preferences April 18, 2021 NPR's All Things Considered NPR's Michel Martin speaks with professor Evan Lieberman about the study he co-authored looking at how sharing information about the pandemic's racial disparities affect peoples' policy opinions. Risk for Us, or for Them? The Comparative Politics of Diversity and Responses to AIDS and Covid-19 May 14, 2020 Evan Lieberman The Social Science Research Council South Africa's Healthy Democracy: Why Zuma's Resignation Is a Good Sign February 20, 2018 Daniel de Kadt, Evan Lieberman, and Philip Martin Foreign Affairs Democracy in South Africa is in tatters. Or at least thats the widespread view following President Jacob Zumas forced resignation on February 14, which ended his almost-nine-year tenure in office. Political science debuts on MITeX August 25, 2017 Leda Zimmerman MIT Political Science New course takes a deep dive into African democracies. The course is about Africa, where there are specific challenges to democratic government, but the questions and ideas that arise are relevant in any political context, says Lieberman. Biography Research Publications News Biography Evan Lieberman is the Total Professor of Political Science and Contemporary Africa. He conducts research in the field of comparative politics, with a focus on development and ethnic conflict in sub-Saharan Africa. Lieberman received his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. He is the author of "Boundaries of Contagion: How Ethnic Politics have Shaped Government Responses to AIDS" (Princeton University Press 2009) and "Race and Regionalism in the Politics of Taxation in Brazil and South Africa" (Cambridge University Press 2003), and has published articles in the American Political Science Review, Annual Review of Political Science, Comparative Political Studies, Politics & Society, Studies in Comparative International Development, and World Development. Evan Lieberman is recipient of the 2014 David Collier Mid-Career Award, the 2010 Giovanni Sartori Book prize, the 2004 Mattei Dogan book prize, the 2002 Gabriel A. Almond dissertation award; and the 2002 Mary Parker Follett article award. He was a Fulbright fellow in South Africa in 1997-98, and a Robert Wood Johnson health policy scholar at Yale University in 2000-02. Previously, he was Professor and Associate Chair in the Department of Politics at Princeton University (2002-14). Research Evan Lieberman employs a range of empirical research methods to better understand the causes and consequences of policy-making, conflict, and human development especially in sub-Saharan Africa. His current projects include a study of the drivers of local and polycentric service delivery in Southern Africa; field experiments investigating the relationship between information provision and citizenship in East Africa; conceptual, case study, and statistical analyses of the institutionalization of ethnic categories around the world; and survey experiments on social identity and perceptions of health-related risks. He is also working on problems of research design and multi-method causal inference in comparative research. Select Recent Publications Nuanced Accountability: Voter Responses to Service Delivery in Southern Africa, (with Daniel de Kadt).British Journal of Political Science, December 2017, 1-31. Census Enumeration and Group Conflict: A Global Analysis of the Consequences of Counting (with Prerna Singh). World Politics January 2017, 1-53. Data and code are available at Harvard Dataverse (DOI:doi:10.7910/DVN/KJV6OJ). Can the Biomedical Research Cycle Be a Model for Political Science?Perspectives on Politics, vol. 14, no. 4, 2016, pp. 10541066. Response to Symposium Reviewers.Perspectives on Politics, vol. 14, no. 4, 2016, pp. 10801082. For a complete list, please visit https://evanlieberman.org/publications/ News Evan Lieberman named faculty director of MISTI, MIT's pioneering international education program November 3, 2021 Center for International Studies The Center is thrilled to announce that Evan Lieberman, Total Professor of Political Science and Contemporary Africa, will become faculty director of the MIT Science and Technology Initiatives (MISTI), effective November 1, 2021. Prof. Lieberman speaks with GBH News on Differences In How Social And Racial Groups Perceive COVID-19 Health Disparities May 13, 2021 Craig LeMoult, Arun Rath, Amanda Beland In It Together, GBH New Study Shows Differences In How Social And Racial Groups Perceive COVID-19 Health Disparities Study reveals mixed reactions about Covid-19 health disparities May 10, 2021 Peter Dizikes MIT News A new study co-authored by an MIT professor identifies different social groups have different reactions to the health inequitiesgenerated by Covid-19. How messaging on COVID-19 disparities affects policy preferences April 18, 2021 NPR's All Things Considered NPR's Michel Martin speaks with professor Evan Lieberman about the study he co-authored looking at how sharing information about the pandemic's racial disparities affect peoples' policy opinions. Risk for Us, or for Them? The Comparative Politics of Diversity and Responses to AIDS and Covid-19 May 14, 2020 Evan Lieberman The Social Science Research Council South Africa's Healthy Democracy: Why Zuma's Resignation Is a Good Sign February 20, 2018 Daniel de Kadt, Evan Lieberman, and Philip Martin Foreign Affairs Democracy in South Africa is in tatters. Or at least thats the widespread view following President Jacob Zumas forced resignation on February 14, which ended his almost-nine-year tenure in office. Political science debuts on MITeX August 25, 2017 Leda Zimmerman MIT Political Science New course takes a deep dive into African democracies. The course is about Africa, where there are specific challenges to democratic government, but the questions and ideas that arise are relevant in any political context, says Lieberman. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
