Nazli Choucri | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Nazli Choucri Professor of Political Science nchoucri@mit.edu E53-493 617-253-6198 N. Choucri Website CV International relations; cybersecurity; international conflict; cyberpolitics; global accord; sustainable development; cyberwar. Biography Nazli Choucri, Professor of Political Science, is a Senior Faculty at the Center of International Studies (CIS), and Faculty Affiliate at the Institute for Data, Science, and Society (IDSS). She works in the area of international relations and cyberpolitics, with special attention to sources of conflict and strategies for security and sustainability. Professor Choucri directs the research initiatives of Cyber-IR@MIT -- also known as ECIR 2.0 -- an extension of the cyber-inclusive view of international relations introduced by MIT-Harvard project on Explorations in Cyber International Relations for which she served as principal investigator. She is the architect and Director of the Global System for Sustainable Development (GSSD), an evolving knowledge networking system centered on sustainability problems and solution strategies. Professor Choucri is the founding Editor of the MIT Press Series on Global Environmental Accord, previously General Editor of the International Political Science Review, and currently on the Editorial Board of the American Political Science Review. Professor Choucri has written numerous papers, and is the author and/or editor of twelve books, most recently Cyberpolitics in International Relations (2012) and International Relations in the Cyber Age: The Co-Evolution Dilemma, with David D. Clark (2019). She is a member of the European Academy of Sciences. Her international research and advisory activities include two terms as President of the Scientific Advisory Committee of UNESCO's Management of Social Transformation Program -- as well as work in Algeria, Canada, Colombia, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Japan, Kuwait, Mexico, Pakistan, Qatar, Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Research International Conflict and CyberPolitics Professor Choucri works in the areas of international relations, conflict and violence and the international political economy with a focus on cyberspace and the global environment. Her early research concentrated on sources and consequences of international conflict and warfare in theoretical and empirical contexts. Her current research is on cyberpolitics in international relations focusing on linking integrating cyberspace into the fabric of international relations. Special attention is on cybersecurity, the power of knowledge, and the changes in political and strategic implications of cyber access worldwide. In collaboration with the late Robert C. North, Stanford University, Choucri developed the theory of lateral pressure in international relations, including its analytical and quantitative representation, and initial validation. Lateral Pressure refers to the propensity to expand behavior outside national boundaries. The theory focuses on the sources and consequences of such propensity. Sustainability and Cyberspace Directing the GSSD initiative, she overseas an evolving multilingual e-knowledge networking system (English, Chinese) designed to facilitate the provision and uses of knowledge in transitions to sustainability, while developing system extensions to incorporate cyberspace and capture evolving patterns of conflict and competition therein. The intellectual foundations and implementation strategy are reported in a co-edited book entitled Mapping Sustainability: Knowledge e-Networking and the Value Chain (2007). The basic architecture is now being adapted for application to the cyber arena, drawing on Cyberpolitics in International Relations (in press). Recent Publications CyberPolitics in International Relations. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 2012. Mapping Sustainability: Knowledge e-Networking and the Value Chain. Springer: London. 2007. "Knowledge Networking for Global Sustainability: New Modes of Cyberpartnering." in D.J. Richards, B.R. Allenby, and W.D. Compton (eds) Information Systems and the Environment. 2001. "Governance and International Management," in Ted Munn, ed., Encyclopedia of Global Environmental Change. London: John Wiley and Sons. Washington: National Academy Press, pp. 195-210. 2000. Global Accord: Environmental Challenges and International Responses. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 1993. The Challenge of Japan: Before World War II and After. Routledge: London and New York. With R. C. North, and Suzumu Yamakage. 1992. International Energy Futures: Petroleum Prices, Power, and Payments. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 1981 Teaching 17.181/2 Sustainable Development: Theory and Policy (Syllabus) 17.405/6 Seminar on Middle East Politics (Syllabus) 17.410/11 Globalization, Migration, and International Relations 17.420 Advances in International Relations Theory (Syllabus) 17.422 Contending Paradigms of International Political Economy 17.445/6 International Relations Thoery in the Cyber Age (Syllabus) 17.447/8 Cyber Politics in International Relations (Syllabus) 17.558 Political Economy and Technology in the Middle East 17.560 Technology, Policy, and Sustainability in the Middle East News Nazli Choucri Connects the Dots Between Technology and Geopolitics January 29, 2021 Katherine Lee AAAS Prof Nazli Choucri's new coauthored book provides a foundational analysis of the co-evolution of the internet and international relations April 9, 2019 MIT Press Professor Nazli Choucri discusses sustainable development and violence on Peace Talks Radio October 27, 2017 Host: Suzanne Kryder Peace Talks Radio Could we be trying to increase peace through speech or action, but forget about the planets ability to handle population growth? Peace Talks Radio discuss the impact of population on peace and what people can do about it with Dr. Nazli Choucri, Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and John Seager, President and CEO of Population Connection. Nazli Choucri November 6, 2015 Panel 4: Conducting research at MIT: What is uniue about being a Political Scientist here? (Cybersecurity) Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Nazli Choucri, Professor of Political Science, is a Senior Faculty at the Center of International Studies (CIS), and Faculty Affiliate at the Institute for Data, Science, and Society (IDSS). She works in the area of international relations and cyberpolitics, with special attention to sources of conflict and strategies for security and sustainability. Professor Choucri directs the research initiatives of Cyber-IR@MIT -- also known as ECIR 2.0 -- an extension of the cyber-inclusive view of international relations introduced by MIT-Harvard project on Explorations in Cyber International Relations for which she served as principal investigator. She is the architect and Director of the Global System for Sustainable Development (GSSD), an evolving knowledge networking system centered on sustainability problems and solution strategies. Professor Choucri is the founding Editor of the MIT Press Series on Global Environmental Accord, previously General Editor of the International Political Science Review, and currently on the Editorial Board of the American Political Science Review. Professor Choucri has written numerous papers, and is the author and/or editor of twelve books, most recently Cyberpolitics in International Relations (2012) and International Relations in the Cyber Age: The Co-Evolution Dilemma, with David D. Clark (2019). She is a member of the European Academy of Sciences. Her international research and advisory activities include two terms as President of the Scientific Advisory Committee of UNESCO's Management of Social Transformation Program -- as well as work in Algeria, Canada, Colombia, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Japan, Kuwait, Mexico, Pakistan, Qatar, Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Research International Conflict and CyberPolitics Professor Choucri works in the areas of international relations, conflict and violence and the international political economy with a focus on cyberspace and the global environment. Her early research concentrated on sources and consequences of international conflict and warfare in theoretical and empirical contexts. Her current research is on cyberpolitics in international relations focusing on linking integrating cyberspace into the fabric of international relations. Special attention is on cybersecurity, the power of knowledge, and the changes in political and strategic implications of cyber access worldwide. In collaboration with the late Robert C. North, Stanford University, Choucri developed the theory of lateral pressure in international relations, including its analytical and quantitative representation, and initial validation. Lateral Pressure refers to the propensity to expand behavior outside national boundaries. The theory focuses on the sources and consequences of such propensity. Sustainability and Cyberspace Directing the GSSD initiative, she overseas an evolving multilingual e-knowledge networking system (English, Chinese) designed to facilitate the provision and uses of knowledge in transitions to sustainability, while developing system extensions to incorporate cyberspace and capture evolving patterns of conflict and competition therein. The intellectual foundations and implementation strategy are reported in a co-edited book entitled Mapping Sustainability: Knowledge e-Networking and the Value Chain (2007). The basic architecture is now being adapted for application to the cyber arena, drawing on Cyberpolitics in International Relations (in press). Recent Publications CyberPolitics in International Relations. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 2012. Mapping Sustainability: Knowledge e-Networking and the Value Chain. Springer: London. 2007. "Knowledge Networking for Global Sustainability: New Modes of Cyberpartnering." in D.J. Richards, B.R. Allenby, and W.D. Compton (eds) Information Systems and the Environment. 2001. "Governance and International Management," in Ted Munn, ed., Encyclopedia of Global Environmental Change. London: John Wiley and Sons. Washington: National Academy Press, pp. 195-210. 2000. Global Accord: Environmental Challenges and International Responses. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 1993. The Challenge of Japan: Before World War II and After. Routledge: London and New York. With R. C. North, and Suzumu Yamakage. 1992. International Energy Futures: Petroleum Prices, Power, and Payments. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 1981 Teaching 17.181/2 Sustainable Development: Theory and Policy (Syllabus) 17.405/6 Seminar on Middle East Politics (Syllabus) 17.410/11 Globalization, Migration, and International Relations 17.420 Advances in International Relations Theory (Syllabus) 17.422 Contending Paradigms of International Political Economy 17.445/6 International Relations Thoery in the Cyber Age (Syllabus) 17.447/8 Cyber Politics in International Relations (Syllabus) 17.558 Political Economy and Technology in the Middle East 17.560 Technology, Policy, and Sustainability in the Middle East News Nazli Choucri Connects the Dots Between Technology and Geopolitics January 29, 2021 Katherine Lee AAAS Prof Nazli Choucri's new coauthored book provides a foundational analysis of the co-evolution of the internet and international relations April 9, 2019 MIT Press Professor Nazli Choucri discusses sustainable development and violence on Peace Talks Radio October 27, 2017 Host: Suzanne Kryder Peace Talks Radio Could we be trying to increase peace through speech or action, but forget about the planets ability to handle population growth? Peace Talks Radio discuss the impact of population on peace and what people can do about it with Dr. Nazli Choucri, Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and John Seager, President and CEO of Population Connection. Nazli Choucri November 6, 2015 Panel 4: Conducting research at MIT: What is uniue about being a Political Scientist here? (Cybersecurity) Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
