Ben Ross Schneider | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2020 2019 2018 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Ben Ross Schneider Ford International Professor of Political Science Director, MIT Brazil Program brs@mit.edu E53-423 617-253-7207 Website CV Business politics; political economy; education politics; industrial policy; business groups; comparative capitalism; social policy; Latin America; Brazil. Biography Ben Ross Schneider is the Ford International Professor of Political Science and director of the MIT Brazil program. Prior to joining the department in 2008, Schneider taught at Princeton University and Northwestern University. Professor Schneider's teaching and research interests fall within the general fields of comparative politics, political economy, and Latin American politics. His books includeReinventing Leviathan: The Politics of Administrative Reform in Developing Countries (2003), Business Politics and the State in 20th Century Latin America (2004), Hierarchical Capitalism in Latin America: Business, Labor, and the Challenges of Equitable Development (Cambridge University Press, 2013), Designing Industrial Policy in Latin America: Business-Government Relations and the New Developmentalism (2015),andNew Order and Progress: Democracy and Development in Brazil(Oxford University Press, 2016). He also has published on topics such as democratization, technocracy, education politics, the developmental state, business groups, industrial policy, and comparative bureaucracy. Research Schneider's current research projects include a broader comparative analysis of the politics of education reform in middle income countries with a special theoretical focus on the roles of teacher unions and business. Other projects focus on business politics, innovation policies, and inequality in Latin America. Schneider's research has been supported by the Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study, the Fulbright Program, the Social Science Research Council, the Searle Foundation, the Kellogg Institute, the Heinz Foundation, the Tinker Foundation, and the Inter-American Foundation. Schneider also has a strong interest in contemporary policy debates and has consulted for the Ford Foundation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the World Bank, the Global Development Network, the United Nations Research Institute for Social Research (UNRISD), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the governments of Brazil and the United States. He has also been active in promoting a new research network, Red de Economa Poltica de Amrica Latina,Repal. Recent Publications Business and Development: How Organization, Ownership, and Networks Matter. (with Ignacio Puente). Review of International Political Economy, February 2020, DOI: 10.1080/09692290.2020.1727548. (pdf) Innovating in Brazil: Advancing Development in the 21st Century. Edited with Elisabeth Reynolds and Ezequiel Zylberberg. London: Routledge, 2019. [Portuguese version Innovao no Brasil. So Paulo: GEN]. (link) Promoting Quality Education in Chile: The Politics of Reforming Teacher Careers. (with Alejandra Mizala). Journal of Education Policy 14 (March 2019), pp. 1-27. (pdf) Technical Education in the Middle Income Trap: Missing Coalitions for Skill Formation. (with Richard Doner). Journal of Development Studies, 2019. (pdf) The Politics of Quality Reforms and the Challenges for SDGs in Education. (with Barbara Bruns and Isabel Harbaugh). World Development vol. 118 (June 2019) pp. 27-38. (pdf) The Politics of Transforming Education in Ecuador: Confrontation and Continuity, 2006-17. (with Pablo Cevallos Estarellas and Barbara Bruns). Comparative Education Review vol. 63, no. 2, 2019. (pdf) Easy and Hard Redistribution: The Political Economy of Welfare States in Latin America. (with Alisha Holland).Perspectives on Politics15(4) (December 2017), pp. 988-1006. (pdf) "The Middle Income Trap: More Politics than Economics. With Richard Doner.World Politics, 68, no. 4, October 2016. (pdf) Designing Industrial Policy in Latin America: Business-Government Relations and the New Developmentalism.Palgrave, 2015. (link) Teaching Teaching 17.178 Institutions and Development(Syllabus) 17.588 Field Seminar in Comparative Politics(Syllabus) 17.S919 Politics, Inequality, and Education (Syllabus) News Prof. Ben Schneider is among MIT's 2021-23 Committed to Caring honorees October 22, 2021 Daniel Korsun Office of Graduate Education Throughout the pandemic, numerous faculty members have stepped up to support and guide their graduate students in unique and impactful ways, through efforts such as championing diversity, equity, and inclusion programs within their departments; respecting students mental health concerns and finding appropriate ways to accommodate them; and fostering community within their advising groups and departments. Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Ben Ross Schneider is the Ford International Professor of Political Science and director of the MIT Brazil program. Prior to joining the department in 2008, Schneider taught at Princeton University and Northwestern University. Professor Schneider's teaching and research interests fall within the general fields of comparative politics, political economy, and Latin American politics. His books includeReinventing Leviathan: The Politics of Administrative Reform in Developing Countries (2003), Business Politics and the State in 20th Century Latin America (2004), Hierarchical Capitalism in Latin America: Business, Labor, and the Challenges of Equitable Development (Cambridge University Press, 2013), Designing Industrial Policy in Latin America: Business-Government Relations and the New Developmentalism (2015),andNew Order and Progress: Democracy and Development in Brazil(Oxford University Press, 2016). He also has published on topics such as democratization, technocracy, education politics, the developmental state, business groups, industrial policy, and comparative bureaucracy. Research Schneider's current research projects include a broader comparative analysis of the politics of education reform in middle income countries with a special theoretical focus on the roles of teacher unions and business. Other projects focus on business politics, innovation policies, and inequality in Latin America. Schneider's research has been supported by the Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study, the Fulbright Program, the Social Science Research Council, the Searle Foundation, the Kellogg Institute, the Heinz Foundation, the Tinker Foundation, and the Inter-American Foundation. Schneider also has a strong interest in contemporary policy debates and has consulted for the Ford Foundation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the World Bank, the Global Development Network, the United Nations Research Institute for Social Research (UNRISD), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the governments of Brazil and the United States. He has also been active in promoting a new research network, Red de Economa Poltica de Amrica Latina,Repal. Recent Publications Business and Development: How Organization, Ownership, and Networks Matter. (with Ignacio Puente). Review of International Political Economy, February 2020, DOI: 10.1080/09692290.2020.1727548. (pdf) Innovating in Brazil: Advancing Development in the 21st Century. Edited with Elisabeth Reynolds and Ezequiel Zylberberg. London: Routledge, 2019. [Portuguese version Innovao no Brasil. So Paulo: GEN]. (link) Promoting Quality Education in Chile: The Politics of Reforming Teacher Careers. (with Alejandra Mizala). Journal of Education Policy 14 (March 2019), pp. 1-27. (pdf) Technical Education in the Middle Income Trap: Missing Coalitions for Skill Formation. (with Richard Doner). Journal of Development Studies, 2019. (pdf) The Politics of Quality Reforms and the Challenges for SDGs in Education. (with Barbara Bruns and Isabel Harbaugh). World Development vol. 118 (June 2019) pp. 27-38. (pdf) The Politics of Transforming Education in Ecuador: Confrontation and Continuity, 2006-17. (with Pablo Cevallos Estarellas and Barbara Bruns). Comparative Education Review vol. 63, no. 2, 2019. (pdf) Easy and Hard Redistribution: The Political Economy of Welfare States in Latin America. (with Alisha Holland).Perspectives on Politics15(4) (December 2017), pp. 988-1006. (pdf) "The Middle Income Trap: More Politics than Economics. With Richard Doner.World Politics, 68, no. 4, October 2016. (pdf) Designing Industrial Policy in Latin America: Business-Government Relations and the New Developmentalism.Palgrave, 2015. (link) Teaching Teaching 17.178 Institutions and Development(Syllabus) 17.588 Field Seminar in Comparative Politics(Syllabus) 17.S919 Politics, Inequality, and Education (Syllabus) News Prof. Ben Schneider is among MIT's 2021-23 Committed to Caring honorees October 22, 2021 Daniel Korsun Office of Graduate Education Throughout the pandemic, numerous faculty members have stepped up to support and guide their graduate students in unique and impactful ways, through efforts such as championing diversity, equity, and inclusion programs within their departments; respecting students mental health concerns and finding appropriate ways to accommodate them; and fostering community within their advising groups and departments. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
