Lassonde Faculty Council - Lassonde School of Engineering Skip To Content News Events Open mobile menu Close mobile menu Back to Lassonde Home Study Expand Navigation Departments Expand Navigation Civil Engineering Earth & Space Science & Engineering Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Expand Navigation Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Computer Security Digital Media Earth & Atmospheric Science Electrical Engineering Geomatics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Software Engineering Space Engineering Graduate Programs Expand Navigation Civil Engineering (MASc; PhD) Computer Engineering (MASc) Computer Science (MSc) Digital Media (MSc; PhD) Earth & Space Science (MSc; PhD) Electrical Engineering & Computer Science (PhD) Mechanical Engineering (MASc; PhD) Certificates and Study Options Expand Navigation GIS and Remote Sensing Certificate Meteorology Certificate BEST Certificate Work-Integrated Learning & Co-op Dual Degree BEST Program Dev Degree The Kindergarten to Industry (K2I) Academy Admissions & Aid Expand Navigation Applying to Lassonde Student Welcome & Support Awards & Financial Aid Expand Navigation Undergraduate Awards & Scholarships Graduate Awards & Scholarships Academic Calendar Student Life Expand Navigation Student Experiences Expand Navigation Co-op Peer Helpers Academic Support & Advising Expand Navigation Academic Honesty & Integrity Connect with an Academic Advisor Student Well-Being Expand Navigation Student Support & Resources Clubs Research Expand Navigation Faculty Research Expand Navigation Research Reports Funding & Award Opportunities Research Centres & Facilities Research Training Programs Expand Navigation Undergraduate Research Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows About Expand Navigation Our Story Our People Expand Navigation Leadership Faculty Staff Our Values Expand Navigation Equity, Diversity and Inclusion k2i academy How we Operate Expand Navigation Faculty Council Committees Careers Expand Navigation Faculty Recruitment Staff Recruitment Get in Touch News Events Lassonde School of Engineering Homepage." Study Expand Navigation Departments Civil Engineering Earth & Space Science & Engineering Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Programs Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Computer Security Digital Media Earth & Atmospheric Science Electrical Engineering Geomatics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Software Engineering Space Engineering Graduate Programs Civil Engineering (MASc; PhD) Computer Engineering (MASc) Computer Science (MSc) Digital Media (MSc; PhD) Earth & Space Science (MSc; PhD) Electrical Engineering & Computer Science (PhD) Mechanical Engineering (MASc; PhD) Certificates and Study Options GIS and Remote Sensing Certificate Meteorology Certificate BEST Certificate Work-Integrated Learning & Co-op Dual Degree BEST Program Dev Degree The Kindergarten to Industry (K2I) Academy Admissions & Aid Expand Navigation Applying to Lassonde Student Welcome & Support Awards & Financial Aid Undergraduate Awards & Scholarships Graduate Awards & Scholarships Academic Calendar Student Life Expand Navigation Student Experiences Co-op Peer Helpers Academic Support & Advising Academic Honesty & Integrity Connect with an Academic Advisor Student Well-Being Student Support & Resources Clubs Research Expand Navigation Faculty Research Research Reports Funding & Award Opportunities Research Centres & Facilities Research Training Programs Undergraduate Research Graduate Students Postdoctoral Fellows About Expand Navigation Our Story Our People Leadership Faculty Staff Our Values Equity, Diversity and Inclusion k2i academy How we Operate Faculty Council Committees Careers Faculty Recruitment Staff Recruitment Get in Touch Lassonde School of Engineering Homepage." Search Search Close mobile menu Lassonde Faculty Council This is your Council The Lassonde Faculty Council is a forum where members of the Lassonde School of Engineering approve academic planning, curricular and research items, and discuss matters relating to the development of the School. Faculty Council is open to everyone in the Lassonde community, although voting rights are reserved for full members. Members of the Deans executive team and support staff attend and participate in meetings, and provide updates on activities taking place within the School. Lassonde students are also members of the Council, and representatives of the student clubs and associations affiliated with Lassonde regularly present their latest plans and achievements. To view the Lassonde Faculty Council Mandate and Terms of Reference document, clickhere. To access the Lassonde Faculty Council Moodle site, click here. Committees Agendas and Minutes Useful Resources Terms of Reference Contact Meet your Chair Your Faculty Council Chair for 2021-22 is professor Franck van Breugel, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS). Professor van Breugel joined the department that is now known as Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) in 1998. From 2015 until 2018, he was the director of the Graduate Program in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Within Lassonde, he has served on the Committee on Learning Curriculum and Students (LCS) and chaired the Committee on Examinations and Academic Standards (CEAS). Professor van Breugel was also the Chair of the Senate Committee on Academic Standards, Curriculum and Pedagogy (ASCP) in 2015-16, the Vice-Chair of Senate in 2017-18, and the Chair of Senate in 2018-19. Terms of Reference 1. Mandate The intent and purpose of this Council is:1.1. Legislative AuthorityLassonde School of Engineerings (hereafter known as School) Faculty Council, is a committee of the York University Senate. The Faculty Council may convene sub-committees to undertake specific duties on behalf of the Faculty Council.1.2. PurposeThe Faculty Council is established to exercise academic governance within the School, to effectively engage the School community in academic decision-making, and to contribute to the quality agenda as defined by the Universitys strategy, international best practice, and internal and external compliance frameworks.1.3. Role and FunctionThe roles and functions of the Faculty Council of the Lassonde School of Engineering are as follows:1.3.1. The Faculty Council will act as the foremost body for academic decision-making within the School, engage its academic community in that process, and accept the role of custodian of the core principles, processes, standards and integrity of the Schools programs of teaching, learning and research, including the adequacy of resourcing.1.3.2. The Faculty Council will contribute to the development of the School academic strategy for its programs of teaching, learning and research and will be the forum in which that strategy is approved. The School strategy will contribute to, and operate within, the principles of the Universitys Academic Plan.1.3.3. The Faculty Council will advise the York University Senate on academic matters, including but not limited to teaching, research, academic policy issues, creation and revision of the regulatory framework, and content of qualifications managed by the School on behalf of York University, and matters relating to prizes, scholarships and other awards.1.3.4. The Faculty Council will monitor and evaluate the contribution of the School to positive Indigenous development in accordance with Universities Canada Principles on Indigenous Education, The University Academic Plan, policy, and strategy, particularly in relation to addressing the principles outlined in the Indigenous Framework for York University: A Guide to Action. 2. Terms of Reference Specific DelegationsThis Faculty Council is established by Senate by means of a statute, which delegates the following powers and responsibilities to the Schools Faculty Council:2.1. Communicate with, disseminate information to, and seek feedback from faculty, staff and students of the School;2.2. Advise the York University Senate on academic matters, including but not limited to: the exercise of academic freedom, academic policy issues, revisions to the regulatory framework, and content of qualifications managed by the School on behalf of York University; and matters related to prizes, scholarships and other awards;2.3. Delegate, as appropriate, through the Faculty Council, to Chairs of Council Committees, Department Chairs and Program Directors, responsibility for program management within the regulatory framework of the University, including but not limited to the admission with equivalent status, recognition of prior learning, approval of waivers, courses of study, and examination results for individual students, and quality assurance of academic program delivery and student learning;2.4. Establish standing committees, as listed below, to facilitate, support and oversee the implementation of the Schools academic and research strategies, including review of curricula and expected learning outcomes, and the Schools teaching and learning strategy: Executive Committee Committee on Learning, Curriculum & Students (LCS) Committee on Planning, Academic Resources & Research (PARR) Committee on Academic Standards Committee on Tenure and Promotions Committee on Awards: Students, Faculty & Staff Sub-committee on Petitions and Appeals Joint Sub-committee Teaching Enhanced & Active Learning (TEAL) Sub-Committee Program Assessment Group on Evaluation & Systems (PAGES) Sub-committee Non-Degree Studies Sub-Committee Engineering Common Curriculum (EC)2.5. Maintain rules governing the membership of Council. Any proposed change to these rules is to be reviewed by the Executive Committee for compliance with recognized principles and practices, and is to be formally approved by Senate.2.6. The list of members of this Faculty Council shall by submitted for approval to the Executive Committee of Senate, this will be done by the Executive Committee on behalf of this Faculty Council.2.7. Prepare and maintain, in concurrence with the University Procedures for Decanal Searches, a process for Decanal Searches for the School.2.8. Exercise other powers delegated to it by the York University Senate. 3. Equity Diversity & Inclusivity Faculty Council recognizes the importance of cultivating a culture of fairness, equity, diversity and inclusion. Faculty Council ensures that these essential principles are integrated into the Schools policies, programs, operations and practices. 4. Council Membership The membership of Faculty Council, Lassonde School of Engineering shall be as follows:4.2. Period of Appointments4.2.1. Ex Officio Members Ex Officio members shall hold their membership in this Council for the duration of their appointment in that role.4.2.2. Faculty Members Full-time faculty members shall hold their membership in this Council for the duration of their appointment in that role Contract faculty members shall hold their membership in this Council for the term during which they hold a teaching position. Emeriti faculty members (retirees) shall hold membership in this Council for the term during which they hold a teaching, administrative or supervisory position4.2.3. Students The undergraduate and graduate students elected and/or appointed as members shall serve for one-year, renewable. Students are eligible to be representatives only while they are currently enrolled in a qualification hosted by the School.4.2.4. Staff Non-academic staff members shall hold their membership in this Council for a term of two-years, renewable.4.2.5. Alumni Alumni representatives shall hold their membership in this Council for a term of one-year.4.3. Elections/Nominations4.3.1. Chair and Vice-Chair of Council The Chair and Vice-Chair of Faculty Council shall be elected by Council and shall serve a period of eighteen months. Normally the Vice-Chair shall succeed the Chair. The election of members to the Council in accordance with the above shall be managed by the Executive Committee of Council and will include a call for nominees from the relevant constituency and a secret ballot.4.3.2. Non-Academic Staff Members Two members of the non-academic staff will be elected. These two members may not be from the same unit. The election of these members to the Council in accordance with the above shall be managed by the Executive Committee of Council and will include a call for nominees from the relevant constituency and a secret ballot.4.3.3. Students Undergraduate and graduate students will be elected such that their number shall not exceed 15% of the Council membership (approximately 22-24 students). This number will include the Lassonde School of Engineering Student Senators (ex-officio). This number will also include at least one undergraduate and graduate student from each of the academic units, to be elected annually by the students in the Lassonde School of Engineering. The positions will be filled via a centralized process which will be managed the Executive Committee. The election process is conducted by the respective student bodies of the Lassonde undergraduate student government and Lassonde graduate student associations.4.3.4. Alumni Representative Alumni representatives shall be elected, as managed by the Executive Committee of Council. The Executive Committee shall request that the call for nominees be disseminated by the Advancement Office which maintains alumni relations.4.4. Power to Co-opt The Council Chair may, at his/her discretion, appoint as a member of Council (co-opt) up to four additional members for specific periods to bring specific skills to the Council.4.5. Representation by Proxy Elected and ex-officio members may not designate a substitute.4.6. Resignation/Dismissal of Members Should an elected member resign from Council, the Chair will endeavor to find a replacement. In the event a replacement cannot be found, a call will go out from the Executive Committee to solicit a replacement Faculty Council may, by resolution, dismiss an elected member of the Council if the member fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Council. In the event of dismissal of an elected member, a by-election will be held; otherwise, the vacancy will be appointed by the Chair of Faculty Council. Should an elected student member resign from the Council, a by-election shall be held to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the term of the member. 5. Meetings & Protocols 5.1. Meetings and Protocols Meetings are open to members of the Lassonde community, subject to the availability of space When Council considers matters relating to specific individuals or to other matters where confidentiality must be observed, the Council may, in the notice for a meeting, declare part of a meeting to be closed or in camera. When Council meets in camera, only members may be present. The Lassonde Faculty Council has adopted York University Rules of Senate to guide and inform its governance structure and operations. Faculty Council shall make its decisions based on a simple majority of those members present and voting at a duly constituted meeting Council members will notify the Chair/Secretary if they will be absent from a meeting5.2. Chair The Chair of Council is responsible for giving leadership to the Council in the pursuit of its mandate. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Chair presides at all meetings of Council, acts as the official spokesperson for Council, chairs the Executive Committee of Council, and ensures that Council and its committees operate in conformity with the rules enacted by Senate. In the case of the absence or illness of the Chair and the Vice-Chair, appoint one of the members of the Council to act as Chair pro tempore and for such period the member so appointed shall act as, and have all the powers of, the Chair.5.3. Quorum No business shall be transacted at a meeting unless at least 20% of the members are present.5.4. Timing and Frequency of Meetings The Council shall meet from September to June typically on the first Friday of the month from 12:30pm to 2:30pm, and at such other times as the Chair shall decide. Special meetings of Council shall be convened under the rules of York University Rules of Senate5.5. Standing Orders The Lassonde Faculty Council has adopted York University Rules of Senate to guide and inform its governance structure and operations.5.6. Agenda, Administration, and Minutes The Lassonde Faculty Council shall be serviced by a Secretary of Council furnished to the Council by the Office of the Dean. The agenda is set by the Executive Committee. Notices of meetings shall be provided as per the York University Rules of Senate. The Executive Committee may alter the order of business for any meeting of Council, provided that the order of business appears on the notice of meeting. The Faculty Council may set its own deadlines for agenda items, noting any University policy or agreed deadlines and required formats for matters affecting the academic offerings of the University. All records of the meetings, including the minutes, shall be retained in accordance with the Common Records Schedule (CRS) for Faculty Councils (ADG15) and Faculty Council Committees (ADG17) under York Universitys Information, Privacy and Copyright Office. The Council Secretary shall be responsible for ensuring correspondence and decisions made by the Council are available to relevant people or bodies, including the membership of sub-committees and secretaries of relevant Faculty Councils.5.7. Voting All members of the Council are voting members unless specifically indicated otherwise. Ex-officio and elected/appointed members have the same voting rights. When the Chair calls the question in accordance with rules and procedures, voting is conducted by a show of hands. Pursuant to the discretion of the Chair, members may be permitted to vote by means of an electronic communication (e-vote) which enables the votes to be gathered in a manner that permits their subsequent verification5.8. Guests and Visitors Non-members are welcome to attend. The Executive Committee or Chair may extend an invitation to a non-member to speak to Faculty Council. Faculty Council itself may, by majority resolution, agree to hear non-members. The Council may issue invitations for either the full academic year or for a particular meeting to individuals who are not members of Council. Such individuals shall be entitled to participate in the meeting(s) of Council to which they have been invited but shall not have the right to vote. All members of the Lassonde School of Engineering including non-academic staff and students registered in the Lassonde School of Engineering shall have the right to attend Council meetings but shall not have the right to vote. Until such time as Senate Executive has completed a positive review of the rules of Council, the Council shall adapt Senates rules and procedures for the conduct of meetings. Normally, non-adjudicating committee meetings will be open (meetings and agendas circulated to all; input from all Council members can be made to committee Chairs). 6. Reporting 6.1. Reporting to the Academic BoardAnnually, and as otherwise required by the Senate, the Faculty Council shall furnish to the Senate a report on its activities and the exercise of its delegations. Contact Faculty Council Pam Edgecombe, Secretary to Council: pamela.edgecombe@lassonde.yorku.ca Name* First Last Email* Subject Your message Lassonde School of Engineering Homepage." Keele CampusToggle menu4700 Keele Street, Toronto ON Canada M3J 1P3 (416) 736-2100LinksToggle menuPrivacy Policy Accessibility Campus maps ResourcesToggle menuContact News Careers facebook instagram twitter linkedin Copyright 2021 Lassonde School of Engineering Telephone: 416-736-5484 Email: ask@lassonde.yorku.ca York University, 4700 Keele St, Toronto ON. M3J 1P3 Canada facebook instagram twitter linkedin
