Our Women Faculty | Mechanical Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Apply Calendar My.MechSE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Mechanical Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About WELL resources MechSE Department Facts Visit MechSE and Apply MechSE Creative Resources MechSE Careers Contact Us Services Undergraduate Ready to Apply to MechSE Undergraduate Programs? Apply Now Undergraduate COVID Response at Illinois Prospective Students BS in Engineering Mechanics BS in Mechanical Engineering Pre-Med Track Advising Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Course Planner Senior Capstone Design Program Benefits to Companies Current Corporate Sponsors Facilities and Resources Initiate a Project Project Examples Study Abroad Student Testimonials Study at Zhejiang University in China Student Groups and Opportunities Scholarships and Awards Undergraduate News and More Undergraduate Blogs Graduate Ready to Apply to MechSE Graduate Programs? Apply Now Graduate A Message from Professor Sofronis COVID-19 Information for Incoming Graduate Students Graduate Programs Staff Graduate Degree Programs PhD Programs PhD in Mechanical Engineering PhD in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics MS Programs MS in Mechanical Engineering MS in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics Master of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering M.Eng.ME News and More Design Track Energy Track Controls & Manufacturing Track M.Eng.ME Academic Requirements M.Eng.ME Career Development M.Eng.ME Online Specialized Courses M.Eng.ME FAQ Deadlines and Requirements for M.Eng.ME Applications Employment and Salary Suggested courses for the professional development requirement Online Programs Applying to MechSE Graduate Programs Find Faculty by Research Area RAs + TAs + Fellowships Graduate Course Offerings Graduate Student Handbook MS/PhD Graduate Student Handbook M.Eng.ME MechSE Graduate Programs Facts Graduate Student Life Graduate News and More Graduate Blog Seminar Requirement Frequently Asked Questions Research In MechSE, we have more than 60 full-time faculty who are engaged in multidisciplinary centers. Learn more Research MechSE Research Centers Research News and More Fundamental Areas Applied Physics Chemistry Computation and Applied Math Dynamics and Controls Fluid Mechanics Solid Mechanics and Materials Thermo and Heat Transfer Societal Impact Energy Environment Health and Bio Manufacturing Security and Defense Transportation MechSE Laboratories Seminars News Our COVID-19 Heroes News Blogs Calendar COVID-19 Heroes MechSE Brochures MechSE Magazines People In MechSE, we have more than 30 faculty with named appointments. Learn more People Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Emeritus Lecturers ZJUI All Faculty Named Appointments Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Women in MechSE A Look at a Few Undergraduate Students A Look at a Few Graduate Students A Look at a Few Alumni What Will We Miss If She Misses Out? Our Women Faculty Alumni & Corporate Share your updates with us.(2 minutes) Update now Alumni & Corporate Alumni Blog Alumni News and More Alumni Awards Sophomore Seminar ME 290 MechSE Alumni Board Corporate Relations Corporate After-Hours Hiring MechSE Students Senior Capstone Design Program ME 470 Student Organizations Sidney Lu MEB Sidney Lu MEB Live Look: Web Cams Lu MEB Photo Galleries See Building Floor Plans The Campaign to Transform MEB Learn About Sidney Lu Giving Giving Make an Online Donation MechSE Current Endowments HomePeopleWomen in MechSE Our Women Faculty The inspiring talent of our women faculty has helped solidify the department as a home for greatness. Mechanical science and engineering offers so many opportunities for life-changing innovations in health and biology, energy, the environment, national defense, manufacturing, and transportation. Our women faculty are well-represented across all of these areas and much more. Lili Cai, Assistant ProfessorLilis focus involves developing rapid, scalable methods to create new materials, primarily using flame methods. She also aims to apply these materials in energy conversion processes and smart wearable applications. With a background in material science, Lili does very interdisciplinary work combining combustion science and nanotechnology. In her teaching, she also aims to enrich the content and develop new courses to better prepare students for industry. Alison C. Dunn, Assistant ProfessorIn her Materials Tribology Laboratory, Alisons research centers on what she calls non-traditional tribology, and she is most interested in natural tribological systemsspecifically, any part of the body that has a sliding interface, like knees, hips, and eyes, and therefore has the potential for disease associated with damage. Reducing friction, particularly of an implanted material, could extend the life of implants and cause less damage or rejection. Elif Ertekin, Associate Professor Elif incorporates a mixed background in the mechanics of materials and materials physics, using atomistic computational methods to design and understand new materials and structures to address a wide range of globally relevant issues, such as energy sustainability, next-generation electronics, and environmental remediation. She also invests hugely in her teaching, and is part of a core group of faculty who are transforming the departments TAM 2XX-level courses. Naira Hovakimyan,W. Grafton and Lillian B. Wilkins Professor, University Scholar, Schaller Faculty ScholarA leading expert in the field of robust adaptive control systems, Naira developed the L1 adaptive control system, the only one tested on manned aircraft and able to override a variety of failure configurations. In September, shell test it for the first time on a manned F-16. Additionally, her team is designing friendly drones to assist with daily household tasks and interact on a more personal level, as well as robots for the elderly, allowing this growing population to live independently for longer and improve their quality of life. Elizabeth T. Hsiao-Wecksler, Professor, Willett Scholar, Associate Head of Undergraduate ProgramsMethods from control theory, movement analysis, design, and dynamic systems modeling form the basis of Lizs research program to investigate issues related to musculoskeletal biomechanics and rehabilitation engineering. She seeks to improve quality of life by improving mobilityfocusing on movement control and function through locomotion biomechanics and assistive device development. Shelby Hutchens, Assistant ProfessorWith a background in chemical engineering, Shelby characterizes soft materials primarily polymers at small scales and studying soft materials fracture. She is developing a new class of materials, and by tuning their material properties and geometry, she hopes to use them as implantable soft casts to help heal soft tissue thats been traumatized, leading to better recovery of the tissues original function. Iwona Jasiuk, ProfessorAs co-director of the Center for Novel High Voltage/Temperature Materials and Structures (HV/TMS), Iwona conducts precompetitive research in materials and methods that can improve the efficiency of our countrys system of electrical power lines. The impact could include huge energy savings, potential prevention of power outages due to ice and wind, and novel solutions for the next-generation electrical grid. Mariana Kersh, Assistant ProfessorUsing clinical-level medical images and finite element analysis in her Tissue Biomechanics Lab, Mariana examines the structural and mechanical properties of musculoskeletal tissues to better discern and develop treatments for bone and joint diseases. With a new grant to study the long-term effects of subchondroplasty procedures on bone and cartilage strength, she hopes to understand where the problems of osteoarthritis start and present treatments for subchondral bone defects. Kathryn Matlack, Assistant ProfessorKaties fascination with acoustics and sound waves inform her research to understand how waves propagate through various materials. Her research shares many ideas from the civil engineering field, and her interests also apply in areas of turbines and aircraft, as well as in seismic wave propagation. She has also been working on the idea of designing new materials that can change properties according to their environments. As an example, there could be a spacecraft covered with material that could change its characteristicssuch as structural properties and vibrational responseto adjust to the various layers of atmosphere it passes through. Glennys Mensing, Research Assistant Professor, MNMS laboratory coordinatorWith a masters degree in chemistry from Clemson and a PhD in physics from Vanderbilt, Glennys work focuses on design, fabrication, and characterization of micro-electromechanical (MEMS) devices in silicon. As MNMS lab (cleanroom) coordinator, she assists other scientists with this process as well. Kelly Stephani, Assistant ProfessorKellys research interests have a foundation in the modeling of fundamental processes involved in gas-surface and plasma-surface interactions. Working with experts in plasma processing and plasma-material interactions, she conducts computational simulations of non-equilibrium flows and studies of gas-surface and plasma-surface interactions. A recent award from NASA funds her work on state-of-the-art simulation capabilities for high-velocity atmospheric vehicles under unique conditions. Amy Wagoner Johnson, ProfessorTo address complications in the repair of diseased or traumatized bone, Amy designs synthetic bone substitute materials and scaffold systems that may one day replace bone grafts currently harvested from patients or donors. Working with local surgeons, her team studies the scaffolds macro- and micro-structure, characterizing their biological response. Sophie Wang, Research Assistant ProfessorXiaofeis primary point of interest is the experimental aspect of energy conservation in air conditioners and refrigeration systemsaiming for sustainability and new, renewable energy. She tests the flow regime, a two-phase flow in air conditioning and refrigeration systems that allows for heat transfer, with the goal of reducing energy consumption from these systems in residential and commercial buildings. Aimy Wissa, Assistant ProfessorInspired by the agility, adaptability, and efficiency of birds wings, Aimy designs and builds adaptive structures that change their shape in response to external stimulants. In her Bio-inspired Adaptive Morphology (BAM) Lab, her current research aims to revolutionize UAV design and has both military and civilian applications including surveillance for combat intelligence and inspection of crops. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Mechanical Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois Sidney Lu Mechanical Engineering Building 1206 W. Green St. MC 244 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1176 | F: (217) 244-0720 Visit Campus Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory MechSE Store Careers Sign up for MechSE alumni communications Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
