Leon Liebenberg | Mechanical Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Apply Calendar My.MechSE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Mechanical Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About WELL resources MechSE Department Facts Visit MechSE and Apply MechSE Creative Resources MechSE Careers Contact Us Services Undergraduate Ready to Apply to MechSE Undergraduate Programs? Apply Now Undergraduate COVID Response at Illinois Prospective Students BS in Engineering Mechanics BS in Mechanical Engineering Pre-Med Track Advising Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Course Planner Senior Capstone Design Program Benefits to Companies Current Corporate Sponsors Facilities and Resources Initiate a Project Project Examples Study Abroad Student Testimonials Study at Zhejiang University in China Student Groups and Opportunities Scholarships and Awards Undergraduate News and More Undergraduate Blogs Graduate Ready to Apply to MechSE Graduate Programs? Apply Now Graduate A Message from Professor Sofronis COVID-19 Information for Incoming Graduate Students Graduate Programs Staff Graduate Degree Programs PhD Programs PhD in Mechanical Engineering PhD in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics MS Programs MS in Mechanical Engineering MS in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics Master of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering M.Eng.ME News and More Design Track Energy Track Controls & Manufacturing Track M.Eng.ME Academic Requirements M.Eng.ME Career Development M.Eng.ME Online Specialized Courses M.Eng.ME FAQ Deadlines and Requirements for M.Eng.ME Applications Employment and Salary Suggested courses for the professional development requirement Online Programs Applying to MechSE Graduate Programs Find Faculty by Research Area RAs + TAs + Fellowships Graduate Course Offerings Graduate Student Handbook MS/PhD Graduate Student Handbook M.Eng.ME MechSE Graduate Programs Facts Graduate Student Life Graduate News and More Graduate Blog Seminar Requirement Frequently Asked Questions Research In MechSE, we have more than 60 full-time faculty who are engaged in multidisciplinary centers. Learn more Research MechSE Research Centers Research News and More Fundamental Areas Applied Physics Chemistry Computation and Applied Math Dynamics and Controls Fluid Mechanics Solid Mechanics and Materials Thermo and Heat Transfer Societal Impact Energy Environment Health and Bio Manufacturing Security and Defense Transportation MechSE Laboratories Seminars News Our COVID-19 Heroes News Blogs Calendar COVID-19 Heroes MechSE Brochures MechSE Magazines People In MechSE, we have more than 30 faculty with named appointments. Learn more People Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Emeritus Lecturers ZJUI All Faculty Named Appointments Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Women in MechSE A Look at a Few Undergraduate Students A Look at a Few Graduate Students A Look at a Few Alumni What Will We Miss If She Misses Out? Our Women Faculty Alumni & Corporate Share your updates with us.(2 minutes) Update now Alumni & Corporate Alumni Blog Alumni News and More Alumni Awards Sophomore Seminar ME 290 MechSE Alumni Board Corporate Relations Corporate After-Hours Hiring MechSE Students Senior Capstone Design Program ME 470 Student Organizations Sidney Lu MEB Sidney Lu MEB Live Look: Web Cams Lu MEB Photo Galleries See Building Floor Plans The Campaign to Transform MEB Learn About Sidney Lu Giving Giving Make an Online Donation MechSE Current Endowments HomePeople Leon Liebenberg Teaching Associate Professor (217) 300-5496 leonl@illinois.edu 2025 Sidney Lu Mech Engr Bldg For more information Web article: "ENGINE team evaluating teaching methods that effectively engage students" Web-article: "Liebenberg program focuses on reimagining our future" Web-article: "Liebenberg Espouses Mini-Projects to Engage Students Emotionally, Improve Learning in Engineering " Liebenberg's ME270 Students Repurpose Products for Final Design Project, Dec. 2020 Web-article: "Liebenberg exciting students into deep learning", Nov 2020, (The Art of Teaching seminar) https://mechse.illinois.edu/news/liebenberg-exciting-students-deep-learning Web-article: "CITL recognizes Liebenberg for high-impact mini projects", August 2020 Web-article: "From Trash to Treasure: Liebenberg Uses Design for Repurposing to Spark Student Interest in Online Classes, Possibly Making a Difference in the COVID-19 Pandemic", May 2020 Google Scholar profile Linked In profile Education B. Eng. (Mechanical), University of Johannesburg, 1989 M. Eng. (Mechanical), University of Johannesburg, 1991 Diploma of Imperial College (DIC): Advanced Mechanical Engineering, University of London, 1992 M. Sc. (Mechanical Engineering), Imperial College London, 1993 Ph. D. (Mechanical Engineering), University of Johannesburg, 2003 Biography For the past 25 years, Leon Liebenberg has been engaged in engineering teaching, research, and community engagement. Leon is an associate teaching professor in the Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering at the UIUC. Before coming to the UIUC in 2017, he was a higher education consultant in Lausanne, Switzerland for three years. And prior to that he was a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Pretoria and at the North-West University, South Africa. Leon is passionate about multidisciplinary research, particularly in the fields of engineering education, energy engineering, and biomedical engineering. His university research has focused on development of industrial energy-efficient technologies and cancer therapies using energy restriction methods, as well as developing novel pedagogies of engagement. His first love is however for teaching. At the UIUC he founded the strategic instructional innovations program called ENGINE (ENgaGement In eNgineering Education); he collaborates with 15 faculty from various disciplines where they explore the relationship between pedagogies of engagement and cognition and emotion, to better understand how we may engage students more fully in their learning, reflection, and testing of ideas. In 1997, Leon co-founded the TechnoLab technology awareness facility for junior engineering students and for school children, where learners work in small teams to solve problems using Lego Dacta and employing roleplay. The TechnoLab model has been adopted by several South African schools since its inception. Leon also founded the Space and Aviation Challenge for school learners in South Africa, which aimed at demystifying the aeronautical engineering profession by employing several simulation-based activities. The Challenge was annually presented for several years in collaboration with Nasa (Houston) who offered the first prize for a learner to attend Space Camp USA. Leon teaches a variety of subjects, including: Innovation; Statics; Dynamics; Thermodynamics; Fluid Dynamics; Automatic Control Systems; Design for Manufacturability; Mechanical Design; Energy Conversion Systems, Heat Transfer; Aerodynamics; Aeronautics; and Advanced Heat and Mass Transfer.Leon holds a diploma in advanced mechanical engineering from the University of London, a masters degree in mechanical engineering from Imperial College London, and bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees in mechanical engineering from the University of Johannesburg.CORE COMPETENCIES:Passionate instructorTeam LeadershipDesign-thinkingMultidisciplinary ResearchSustainable DevelopmentTechnical WritingMentoringStudent EngagementNegotiationsPartnership DevelopmentGamificationBrand AmbassadorshipFundraisingMarketing StrategiesTechnical PresentationsPublic RelationsMedia Relations Academic Positions Teaching Associate Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Mechanical Science and Engineering, Aug. 2019 - present Professional Registrations Member, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Member, Society for Literature, Science, and the Arts (SLSA) Member, American Society of Mechanical Engineering (ASME) Member, American Society for Heating, Refrigeration, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Member, American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) Other Professional Activities Inaugural Fellow of the Center for Innovation in Teaching and Learning (CITL); Co-Chair of CITL Faculty Fellows program, 2019-2020, and 2020-2021 Professional Highlights In 2016 I was a Top 30 Finalist (out of 2300 entries) for the 2016 Rolex Awards for Enterprise for development of a social network game (with real-world problem-solving component) addressing sustainable development, cultural values, and lifestyle effects. The same gamification techniques and game mechanics can be used to drive student or customer engagement and change behaviour, attitudes and beliefs. I am currently investigating the incorporation of several gamification techniques to help enhance emotional learning in the mechanical engineering curriculum at UIUC. At the North-West University, I Increased the number of research outputs emanating from the Centre for Research and Continued Engineering Development (CRCED-Pretoria) by 450% through intensive mentoring of postgraduate students, by recruiting new (part-time) students from various organizations, and by co-authoring research publications. At the University of Pretoria, I co-developed and taught a unique first-year course in Innovation, lectured every year to 800 freshmen engineers. The 10-month course helped students discover the power of wholebrain thinking in problem-solving, as well as the usefulness of roleplaying certain metaphorical mind-sets (personas) when tackling a challenge in teams. At the University of Pretoria, I founded the research publication, Innovate, the Space and Aviation Photographic Competition for school students (with Kodak SA), and the annual national Space and Aviation Challenge for school students (in collaboration with NASAs International Space School, Houston), initiatives all credited with attracting top performing students to the university and increasing collaboration between different departments within the university. I founded and led the University of Johannesburgs TechnoLab facility, an innovative way to bring technology awareness to school students and teachers. The program has reached in excess of 60,000 students and teachers since its inception in 1997, using a unique team-based approach to solve technological problems using mainly Lego Dacta as a didactic medium. During compulsory national military service in the South African Navy (1980 - 1982), I was Executive Officer of a naval support vessel, SAS Fleur, with a complement of 30 sailors and five officers. Research Interests Non-toxic modification of the human energy metabolism to help control prolific disorders, with emphasis on glucose-hemodiafiltration Cross-disciplinary research activities focusing on energy system optimization and heat transfer enhancement Collaborative intelligence techniques in engineering teaching and learning, with a focus on "self-directed learning", "pedagogies of engagement", "learning through play", "design-thinking", and stimulation of "emotional learning" Selected Articles in Journals Bello-Ochende T, Liebenberg L, Meyer JP. Constructal cooling channels for micro-channel heat sinks. International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, 2007;50(21-22): 4141 - 4150. De Beer JC, Liebenberg L. Does cancer risk increase with HbA1c, independent of diabetes? British Journal of Cancer, 2014;110:2361-2368. Du Plessis GE, Liebenberg L, Mathews EH, Du Plessis J. A versatile energy management system for large integrated cooling systems. Energy Conversion and Management, 2013;66:312-325. Du Plessis GE, Liebenberg L, Mathews EH. Case study: The effects of a variable flow energy saving strategy on a deep-mine cooling system. Applied Energy, 2013;102:700-709. Du Plessis GE, Liebenberg L, Mathews EH. The use of variable speed drives for cost-effective energy savings in South African mine cooling systems. Applied Energy, 2013;111:16-27. EDUCATION: Mller M, Liebenberg L, Mathews EH, Young, PW. Quick estimates for analysis and prediction of the flight mechanics of unmanned aerial vehicles. International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education, 2012;40(1):53-77. EDUCATION: Van Heerden ASJ, Lidbetter R, Liebenberg L, Meyer JP, Mathews EH. Development of a motion platform for an educational flight simulator. International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education, 2012;39(4):306-322. Huyssen RJ, Spedding GR, Mathews EH, and Liebenberg L. Circulation control by means of a fuselage training edge. Journal of Aircraft, 2012;49(55):1279-1289. Huyssen RJ, Spedding GR, Mathews EH, Liebenberg L. On the wing density and the inflation factor of aircraft. The Aeronautical Journal, 2016;120(1224): 291-312. Jacobs GG, Liebenberg L. The Influence of Timed Coolant Injection on Compressor Efficiency. Energy Conversion and Management, 18:175-189,2016 Jonker A, Bosman J, Mathews EH, Liebenberg L. Flow over a glider canopy. Aeronautical Journal, 2014;118(1204):669-682. Kim HJ, Liebenberg L, Jacobi AM. Thermal Performance of a Vertical Brazed Plate Heat Exchanger with Convective Boiling of R-134a near the Micro-Macroscale Transition. Journal of Heat Transfer, 2018;140(9): 09501. Kwon B, Liebenberg L, Jacobi AM, WP King. Heat Transfer Enhancement of Internal Laminar Flows Using Additively Manufactured Static Mixers. International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, 2019;137: 292-300. Lambrechts A, Liebenberg L, Bergles AE, Meyer JP. Heat transfer performance during condensation inside horizontal smooth, micro-fin and herringbone tubes. Journal of Heat Transfer, 2006;128(7):691-700. Liebenberg L, and Mathews EH. Integrating innovation skills in an introductory design-build course. International Journal of Technology and Design Education, 2012;21(4):93-113. Liebenberg L, Meyer JP. (Invited editorial). Objective classification of two-phase flow regimes. Heat Transfer Engineering, 2008;29(1):1-2. Liebenberg L, Meyer JP. Objective classification of two-phase flow regimes. Heat Transfer Engineering, 2007;29(1):1-2. Liebenberg, Thome JR, Meyer JP. Flow visualization and flow pattern identification with power spectral density distributions of pressure traces during refrigerant condensation in smooth and micro-fin tubes. Journal of Heat Transfer, 2005;127(3):209-220. Mathews EH, Stander BA, Joubert AM, Liebenberg L. Tumour cell culture survival following glucose and glutamine deprivation at typical physiological concentrations. Nutrition, 2014;30(2):218-227. Mathews MJ, Liebenberg L, Mathews EH. How do high glycemic load diets influence coronary heart disease? Nutrition & Metabolism, 2015;12:6. (Top 5% of articles ever reviewed by Altmetric.) Olivier JA, Liebenberg L, Kedzierski MA, Meyer JP. Pressure drop during refrigerant condensation inside horizontal smooth, helical micro-fin, and herringbone micro-fin tubes. Journal of Heat Transfer, 2004;126(5):687-696. Olivier JA, Meyer JP and Liebenberg L. Single-phase heat transfer and pressure drop inside smooth tubes for transitional flow with different inlet geometries (RP-1280). HVAC&R Research, Manuscript number RSCH-00195-2008, 22 March 2010. Visagie MH, Mqoco TV, Liebenberg L, Mathews EH, Mathews GH, Joubert AM. Influence of partial and complete glutamine- and glucose deprivation of breast- and cervical tumorigenic cell lines. Cell & Bioscience, 2015;5(1):1-26. Vosloo J, Liebenberg L, and Velleman D. Energy savings for water reticulation systems on deep mines. Applied Energy, 2012;92:328-335. Articles in Conference Proceedings EDUCATION: Pagano A, Liebenberg L, Shehab S. Introducing Students to Human-Centered Design in a Design for Manufacturability Course. 2020 ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition. Online conference (COVID-19 pandemic), June 2020. EDUCATION: Tucker, T, Vernooij E, Bo-Linn C, Baird R, Dancholvichit N, LaBore C, Liebenberg L. Transforming an Engineering Design Course into an Engaging Learning Experience using ePortfolios. 2020 ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition. Online conference (COVID-19 pandemic), June 2020. EDUCATION: Pagano A, Liebenberg L, M Goldstein. Play-in-learning: studying the impact of emotion and cognition in undergraduate engineering learning. 2019 ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition, Tampa FL, June 2019. Invited Lectures Invited inaugural lecture. CITL lunchtime seminar, The art of teaching Other Scholarly Activities Fall 2020: invited to present inaugural CITL "lunchtime seminar", 5 November 2020: "Exciting students into learning", https://mediaspace.illinois.edu/media/t/1_etz9edwt Teaching Honors Rose Award for Teaching Excellence (Feb. 2021) Inaugural Fellow and Co-Chair of CITL Faculty Fellows Program (Fall 2019 - Fall 2021) Recent Courses Taught ME 200 (ME 300) - Thermodynamics ME 270 (TAM 270) - Design for Manufacturability ME 310 - Fundamentals of Fluid Dynamics ME 370 - Mechanical Design I ME 400 - Energy Conversion Systems TAM 335 - Introductory Fluid Mechanics Related News December 3, 2021 ENGINE team evaluating teaching methods that effectively engage students October 29, 2021 Liebenberg program focuses on reimagining our future August 20, 2021 New undergrad sustainability competition launches May 19, 2021 Liebenberg's mini-projects aim to improve autonomy in learning March 3, 2021 Liebenberg named winner of the Rose Award for Teaching Excellence February 25, 2021 Six from MechSE win Outstanding Advisor award Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Mechanical Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois Sidney Lu Mechanical Engineering Building 1206 W. Green St. MC 244 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1176 | F: (217) 244-0720 Visit Campus Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory MechSE Store Careers Sign up for MechSE alumni communications Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
