Mariana E. Kersh | Mechanical Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Apply Calendar My.MechSE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Mechanical Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About WELL resources MechSE Department Facts Visit MechSE and Apply MechSE Creative Resources MechSE Careers Contact Us Services Undergraduate Ready to Apply to MechSE Undergraduate Programs? Apply Now Undergraduate COVID Response at Illinois Prospective Students BS in Engineering Mechanics BS in Mechanical Engineering Pre-Med Track Advising Resources Undergraduate Course Offerings Course Planner Senior Capstone Design Program Benefits to Companies Current Corporate Sponsors Facilities and Resources Initiate a Project Project Examples Study Abroad Student Testimonials Study at Zhejiang University in China Student Groups and Opportunities Scholarships and Awards Undergraduate News and More Undergraduate Blogs Graduate Ready to Apply to MechSE Graduate Programs? Apply Now Graduate A Message from Professor Sofronis COVID-19 Information for Incoming Graduate Students Graduate Programs Staff Graduate Degree Programs PhD Programs PhD in Mechanical Engineering PhD in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics MS Programs MS in Mechanical Engineering MS in Theoretical and Applied Mechanics Master of Engineering in Mechanical Engineering M.Eng.ME News and More Design Track Energy Track Controls & Manufacturing Track M.Eng.ME Academic Requirements M.Eng.ME Career Development M.Eng.ME Online Specialized Courses M.Eng.ME FAQ Deadlines and Requirements for M.Eng.ME Applications Employment and Salary Suggested courses for the professional development requirement Online Programs Applying to MechSE Graduate Programs Find Faculty by Research Area RAs + TAs + Fellowships Graduate Course Offerings Graduate Student Handbook MS/PhD Graduate Student Handbook M.Eng.ME MechSE Graduate Programs Facts Graduate Student Life Graduate News and More Graduate Blog Seminar Requirement Frequently Asked Questions Research In MechSE, we have more than 60 full-time faculty who are engaged in multidisciplinary centers. Learn more Research MechSE Research Centers Research News and More Fundamental Areas Applied Physics Chemistry Computation and Applied Math Dynamics and Controls Fluid Mechanics Solid Mechanics and Materials Thermo and Heat Transfer Societal Impact Energy Environment Health and Bio Manufacturing Security and Defense Transportation MechSE Laboratories Seminars News Our COVID-19 Heroes News Blogs Calendar COVID-19 Heroes MechSE Brochures MechSE Magazines People In MechSE, we have more than 30 faculty with named appointments. Learn more People Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Emeritus Lecturers ZJUI All Faculty Named Appointments Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Women in MechSE A Look at a Few Undergraduate Students A Look at a Few Graduate Students A Look at a Few Alumni What Will We Miss If She Misses Out? Our Women Faculty Alumni & Corporate Share your updates with us.(2 minutes) Update now Alumni & Corporate Alumni Blog Alumni News and More Alumni Awards Sophomore Seminar ME 290 MechSE Alumni Board Corporate Relations Corporate After-Hours Hiring MechSE Students Senior Capstone Design Program ME 470 Student Organizations Sidney Lu MEB Sidney Lu MEB Live Look: Web Cams Lu MEB Photo Galleries See Building Floor Plans The Campaign to Transform MEB Learn About Sidney Lu Giving Giving Make an Online Donation MechSE Current Endowments HomePeople Mariana E. Kersh Associate Professor (217) 300-0495 mkersh@illinois.edu 4043 Beckman Institute For more information Tissue Biomechanics Lab Homepage Education PhD Materials Science, University of Wisconsin, 2010 MS Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 2008 BA Mechanical Engineering, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 2005 BA English, University of Texas - Austin, 1999 Biography Dr. Mariana Kersh is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering at The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and is Director of the Tissue Biomechanics Laboratory. Previously, she was a post-doctoral research fellow in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Melbourne, under a university-wide McKenzie fellowship in which she was the sole recipient in the College of Engineering. Her research focuses on the use of experimental methods to evaluate macro-level mechanical and structural properties of bone, cartilage, and connective tissues, such as ligaments, in order to include them into finite element simulations of these tissues under physiological loads. She first received a Bachelor of Arts in English at The University of Texas-Austin, then went on to receive a Bachelors and Masters in Mechanical Engineering, and PhD in Materials Science Engineering at The University of Wisconsin Madison as a National Science Foundation Pre-Doctoral Fellow. Academic Positions Health Innovation Professor, Carle-Illinois College of Medicine, 2021 - present (33%) Assistant Professor, University of Illinois, Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering, 2021 - present (67%) Part-time Faculty, University of Illinois, Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, 2017 - present (0%) Assistant Professor, University of Illinois, Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering, 2014 - 2020 (100%) Postdoctoral McKenzie Fellow, University of Melbourne, Department of Mechanical Engineering, 2010-2014 Research Interests Mechanical properties of musculoskeletal tissues, joint movement, imaging, structure-function relationships. Bone and joint diseases such as osteoporosis and osteoarthritis significantly impact the quality of life of those afflicted, and impose a personal and societal financial burden. Relating the structural and mechanical properties of musculoskeletal tissues to their function can help increase our understanding and therefore the treatment of bone and joint diseases. We explore the structure and organization of biological materials using clinical-level medical images. By doing so, we can link architecture to functional outcomes such as survivability and strength derived from novel experimental techniques. We also use the finite-element method to answer those questions that are difficult to do so experimentally. Research Areas Computation and Applied Math Health and Bio Solid Mechanics and Materials Selected Articles in Journals Yan C, Song H, Pfister J, Andersen TL, Warden S, Bhargava R, Kersh ME. Effect of fatigue loading and rest on impact strength of rat ulna. Journal of Biomechanics, 123, 110449, 2021. Pineda Guzman RA, Kersh ME. Replication of the tensile behavior of knee ligaments using architected acrylic yarn. Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials, 118, 104339, 2021. Yan C, Moshage SG, Kersh ME. Play when young: Bone adaptation to sports during growth. Current Osteoporosis Reports, 18, 684-695, 2020. Invited. Kersh ME. Resolving nanoscale strains in whole joints. Nature Biomedical Engineering 4, 257-258, 2020. Invited article. Moshage SG, McCoy AM, Polk JD, Kersh ME. Temporal and spatial changes in bone accrual, density and strain energy density in growing foals. Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials, 103, 103568, 2020. Articles in Conference Proceedings Kersh ME, Song H, Polk J. Small changes in structure and mineral density after exercise can have profound effects on mechanical strength. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research, 35, 39-40, 2020. Polk JD, Song H, Kersh ME. Subchondral and Trabecular Bone Respond Differently to Exercise in Juvenile Sheep. The FASEB Journal 34 (S1), 1-1, 2020. Song H, Polk JD, Kersh ME. Exercise and postural effects on trabecular and subchondral bone properties in the medial femoral condyle. American Journal of Physical Anthropology, 171, 270-270, 2020. Moshage S, McCoy A, Polk JD, Kersh ME. Structural changes in equine proximal phalanx during growth. Journal of Equine Veterinary Science, 76: 52-53, 2019. Song H, Kersh ME. Gait and scaling effect on bone growth in rat tibia. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research, 33, 151-152, 2018. Presentations 1. Yan C, Warden S, Kersh ME. Tibial bone strain in basketball players during dynamic maneuvers. Orthopedic Research Society, 2021. Late breaking abstract. MacInnis B and Kersh ME. Identifying subject-specific determinants of femoral neck strain during walking. Orthopedic Research Society, 2021. Yan C, Warden S, Kersh ME. Tibial bone strain in basketball players during dynamic tasks. American Society of Biomechanics, 2020. PhD 3MT semi-finalist. Moshage SG, Polk JD, Kersh ME. Ovine cortical bone responds to moderate exercise with increased density but not bone area fraction. Summer Biomechanics, Bioengineering and Biotransport Conference, 2020. Halloran KM, Moshage SG, Hammack SM, McCoy AM, Kersh ME. Compressive stress and strain on the equine third metacarpal during growth. Summer Biomechanics, Bioengineering and Biotransport Conference, 2020. Thomsen J.S., C.M. Andreasen, L.P. Bakalova, A.-M. Brel, E.M. Hauge, G.E. Toft Eschen, B.J. Kill, J.-M. Delaisse, M.E. Kersh, T.L. Andersen. "Characterization of the remodeling events contributing to trabecularization of cortical bone: A study on human fibula diaphysis," American Society of Bone and Mineral Research, 2017. Rahman, H. and M.E. Kersh, "The effect of cross-sectional area variation on ligament apparent properties," Orthopedic Research Society, 2017. Lee, W., H. Rahman, M.E. Kersh, and K. Toussaint, "Crimp characterization of porcine posterior cruciate ligament by second harmonic generation," Orthopedic Research Society, 2017. Professional Societies 2014 - present: American Society of Bone and Mineral Research, member 2015 - present: American Society of Biomechanics, member 2015 - present: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, member Research Honors Spotlight New Investigator (2017) Alice L. Jee Young Investigator Award (2017) Early Career Researcher Award (2013) McKenzie Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship (3 years, 1 of 12 university/discipline wide, single recipient in engineering, 6% success rate) (2010) Pre-Doctoral Graduate Research Fellowship (3 years) (2007) Graduate Engineering Research Scholar Fellowship (2 years) (2005 ) Recent Courses Taught ME 481 (BIOE 481) - Whole-Body Musculoskel Biomech ME 598 MEK - Orthopedic Biomechanics TAM 210 - Introduction to Statics TAM 211 - Statics TAM 251 - Introductory Solid Mechanics TAM 598 211 (TAM 598 MK, TAM 598 MKO) - Orthopedic Biomechanics Related News October 20, 2021 Grad Student Appreciation: Sara Moshage February 25, 2021 Six from MechSE win Outstanding Advisor award February 18, 2021 Kersh, Jasiuk named Carle Illinois Health Innovation Professors January 8, 2021 Grad Student Feature: Sara Moshage July 8, 2019 Kersh hopes to spark interest in engineering at athletic camps November 7, 2018 Kersh studies what influences the mechanical and structural properties of bone Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Mechanical Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois Sidney Lu Mechanical Engineering Building 1206 W. Green St. MC 244 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1176 | F: (217) 244-0720 Visit Campus Learn more About Us Contact Us Directory MechSE Store Careers Sign up for MechSE alumni communications Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
