Jones, Mathew Department of Neuroscience UWMadison Skip to main content University of WisconsinMadison UW Crest Department of Neuroscience School of Medicine and Public Health Search Menu open menu close Home Faculty Expand Collapse Faculty Biographies Neuroscience Emeritus Affiliates Research Areas Students Expand Collapse Undergraduate Courses Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Course Guide WiscMail Resources Expand Collapse Research Links Neuroscience Directory Information Technology UW School of Medicine and Public Health Medical Library McBurney Disability Resource Center Poetry Archive News & Events Expand Collapse Department News Current Events Seminars Job Opportunities Contact Expand Collapse Contact Us Maps & Directions Seminar Rooms Donations PubMed UW Directory UW Email UW Box Home Jones, Mathew Mathew Jones Position title: Associate Professor, Ph.D., 1993, Pharmacological and Physiological Sciences, University of Chicago Email: mathewjones@wisc.edu Phone: (608) 263-4394 Address: RESEARCH INTERESTS - Mechanisms of inhibitory synaptic transmission Information in the brain is encoded in the electrical activity of neurons that communicate with each other using chemical synapses. These synapses can be excitatory or inhibitory. Recent work from many laboratories has revealed that, rather than merely suppressing neuronal firing, inhibitory synapses are intimately involved in shaping the flow and timing of information in neural circuits. My research attempts to understand the mechanisms by which biophysical events at inhibitory synapses give rise to the computational roles that inhibition plays in neural circuitry. This topic requires study on several levels including the molecular function of GABA-A receptors (i.e., the postsynaptic ion channels), the time course and spread of GABA in the synapse and the connectivity and timing of signals across many excitatory and inhibitory neurons within a circuit. I use a combination of patch-clamp electrophysiology, rapid solution exchange methods and computer modeling to address these issues in cultured neurons, brain slices and heterologous expression systems. Some of my previous work in this area and my current research directions are outlined below. GABAA Receptor Biophysics Gating After a brief pulse of GABA, such as might occur at the synapse, GABA-A receptors spend much of their time in desensitized (i.e., bound but closed) states. Although their existence has been known for a long time, the significance of these states was poorly understood. My colleagues and I showed that they are responsible for prolonging the IPSC by buffering the channel in the GABA-bound conformation. Desensitized states also make inhibition dependent on the recent history of transmission at each synapse (Jones & Westbrook, 1995, 1996; Jones et al., 1999b; Overstreet et al., 1999c). Regulation People often say that changes in the subunit composition of GABA-A receptors may be an important developmental mechanism for tailoring synapses for particular tasks. In contrast, we found that moment-to-moment intracellular regulation of these receptors can bring about changes in the postsynaptic response that are just as large as those caused by subunit differences between synapses. This implies that a neuron may rapidly regulate its own inhibition, potentially one synapse at a time, and in response to the constantly changing context of local network activity (Jones & Westbrook, 1997). Coupling of GABA Binding to Gating GABA binds to the GABA-A receptor much more slowly than one would predict based on models of ligands colliding with a rigid binding site through diffusion alone. There is also a striking correlation between agonist length and affinity. These data suggested that an energy-requiring event precedes or accompanies GABA binding, and we were able to measure this energy. To account for this energy requirement, we developed and tested a very simple molecular model of the GABA binding site in which the receptor must undergo a conformational movement before it can bind GABA. This movement appears to be the first step in transducing the energy of GABA binding into channel opening. More recent experiments comparing agonist and antagonists kinetics further support our conclusions. Future experiments will be aimed at a comprehensive understanding of how GABA-A receptor structure produces its function, with particular emphasis on the kinetics of channel opening and desensitization that underlie the inhibitory postsynaptic current (Jones et al., 1998, 1999a). The Time Course and Spatial Spread of GABA at the Synapse A slightly higher level in the spectrum of inhibitory mechanisms involves questions like: What happens to the GABA that gets released from a synaptic vesicle? Does it get taken back up or can it diffuse over to receptors at neighboring synapses? What happens to those receptors if or when it gets there? We have begun to answer these questions at synapses on granule cells of the dentate gyrus by taking advantage of the fact that GABA-A receptor antagonists that unbind very rapidly can be replaced at their binding sites by the GABA released into the synapse. This introduces a late component into the rising phase of inhibitory postsynaptic currents. We therefore used measurements of the IPSC rising phase in the presence of antagonists to show that the GABA released from a single vesicle reaches concentrations in the millimolar range, but decays to low micromolar levels within only a few hundred microseconds. We have incorporated our physiological data, as well as published measurements of synaptic geometry and GABA transporter kinetics, into Monte Carlo models of GABA diffusion at synapses in an attempt to understand the ability of GABA to act as a signal between neighboring synapses (Jones et al., 1999b). Animation: Monte Carlo Modeling of Inhibitory Synapses This animation shows 25 ms of the simulated diffusion of GABA in and around a synapse. The gray cubes represent cell membranes. They are 320 nm on each side and separated by 15 nm. The green dots are 5000 GABA molecules, which can only travel in the extracellular spaces between the boxes. Each red square marks a postsynaptic surface, populated with GABA-A receptors whose colors change according to their kinetic state ( Unbound, Bound1, Bound2, Open1, Open2, Dfast, Dslow; Jones et al., 1998). GABA transporters are present on every surface, although they are not shown. Note that GABA molecules can diffuse out of the synapse where they were released (middle) and enter a neighboring synapse about 500 nm away (top), where they can activate or desensitize a fraction of the neighboring GABA-A receptors. Inhibition and Information Processing by Neural Circuits The traditional view of inhibition is that it acts like an activity-sensitive clutch, to keep neural excitability under control. However, recent work has revealed many more subtle and computationally flexible features. For example, a single GABAergic interneuron is capable of synchronizing the firing of hundreds of target cells, providing just one illustration of how inhibition can sculpt the flow and timing of information in neural circuits. However, the word information is still rather poorly defined in this context. A common approach is to ask what aspects of a behavioral stimulus are encoded by neural activity, generally using extracellular recordings in vivo. In such experiments, spikes can be observed but the sources and nature of the synaptic drive are very difficult to isolate. An alternative approach, which I employ, is to begin with a well-isolated circuit using brain slices which allow for simultaneous high resolution recordings and control at multiple pre- and postsynaptic sites in the circuit. One can then ask what operations the circuit performs on signals that are fed into it, and attempt to identify the biophysical mechanisms that allow it to perform its function as a signal processing device. With quantitative knowledge of the input and output of the circuit, one is in a much better position to precisely define information and characterize its flow within the circuit using the well established methods of Signal Processing and Information Theory. I am currently using these methods to investigate signal processing in the dentate gyrus. Selected Publications Hill EL, Hosie S, Mulligan RS, Richards KL, Davies PJ, Dube CM, Baram TZ, Reid CA, Jones MV, Petrou S. (2011) Temperature elevation increases GABAA -mediated cortical inhibition in a mouse model of genetic epilepsy. Epilepsia 52:179-84 Ewell LA and Jones MV (2010) Frequency-tuned distribution of inhibition in the dentate gyrus. J. Neurosci. 30:12597-12607. PMCID in process Goldschen-Ohm MP, Wagner DA, Petrou S and Jones MV (2010) An epilepsy-related region in the GABAA receptor mediates long-distance effects on GABA and benzodiazepine binding sites. Mol. Pharmacol. 77:35-45. PMC2802431 Chiu C, Reid CA, Tan HO, Davies PJ, Single FN, Koukoulas I,Berkovic SF, Tan S-S, Sprengel R, Jones MV and Petrou S (2008) Developmental impact of a familial GABAA receptor epilepsy mutation. Annals of Neurology, 64:284-293. PMCID in process Foldy, C., Neu, A. Jones, M.V. and Soltesz, I. (2006) Presynaptic activity-dependent modulation of cannabinoid type 1 receptor-mediated inhibition of GABA release. J. Neurosci. 26:1465-1469 Frassetto, L.J., Schlieve, C.R., Lieven, C.J., Utter, A.A., Jones, M.V., Agarwal, N. and Levin, L.A. (2006) Kinase-Dependent Differentiation of A Retinal Ganglion Cell Precursor . IOVS, 47: 427-438 Wagner, D.A., Goldschen-Ohm, M.P., Hales, T.G. and Jones, M.V. (2005) Kinetics and spontaneous open probability conferred by the epsilon subunit of the GABAA receptor. J. Neurosci. 25:10462-10468 Wagner, D.A., Czajkowski, C. and Jones, M.V. (2004) An arginine involved in GABA binding and unbinding but not gating of the GABAA receptor. J. Neurosci. 24, 2733-2741 *Bowser, D.N., *Wagner, D.A., Czajkowski, C., Cromer, B.A., Parker, M.W., Wallace, R.H., Harkin, L.A., Mulley, J.C., Marini, C., Berkovic, S.F., Williams, D.A., Jones, M.V. and Petrou, S. (2002) Altered kinetics and benzodiazepine sensitivity of a GABAA receptor subunit mutation (g-R43Q) found in human epilepsy. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci., 99:15170-15175. (* co-first authors: D.W. was a postdoc in Dr. Jones lab.) Harney, S.C. and Jones, M.V. (2002) Pre- and postsynaptic properties of somatic and dendritic inhibition in dentate gyrus. Neuropharmacology, 43:584-594 Jones, M.V., Jonas, P., Sahara, Y. and Westbrook, G.L. (2001) Microscopic kinetics and energetics distinguish GABAA receptor agonists from antagonists. Biophys. J. 81:2660-2670 Overstreet, L.S., Jones, M.V., and Westbrook, G.L. (2000) Slow desensitization regulates the availability of synaptic GABAA receptors . J. Neurosci. 20, 7914-7921 Jones MV, Sahara Y, Dzubay JA and Westbrook GL (1998). Defining affinity with the GABAA receptor. J Neurosci 18, 8590-8604. Jones MV and Westbrook GL (1997). Shaping of inhibitory postsynaptic currents by endogenous calcineurin activity. J Neurosci 17, 7626-7633. Jones MV and Westbrook GL (1996). The impact of receptor desensitization on fast synaptic transmission. Trends Neurosci 19, 96-101. Jones MV and Westbrook GL (1995). Desensitized states prolong GABAA channel responses to brief agonist pulses. Neuron 15, 181-191. Zimmerman SA, Jones MV and Harrison NL (1994). Potentiation of GABAA receptor Cl- current correlates with in vivo anesthetic potency. J Pharm ExpTher 270, 987-991 Jones MV and Harrison NL (1993). Effects of volatile anesthetics on the kinetics of inhibitory postsynaptic currents in cultured rat hippocampal neurones. J Neurophysiol 70, 1339-1349. Jones MV, Brooks PA and Harrison NL (1992). Enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid-activated chloride currents in cultured rat hippocampal neurones by three volatile anaesthetics. J Physiol 449, 279-293. Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Home Department News Faculty Biographies Job Opportunities Contact Us Maps & Directions Back to UW-Madison Contact UsDepartment of Neuroscience 1111 Highland Avenue Room 5505 WIMR-II Madison, WI 53705 USA Email: neuro-office@lists.wisc.edu Phone: 608.262.2938 (non-clinical) Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: techsupport@hslc.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | 2021 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
