Sousa, Andre M.M. Department of Neuroscience UWMadison Skip to main content University of WisconsinMadison UW Crest Department of Neuroscience School of Medicine and Public Health Search Menu open menu close Home Faculty Expand Collapse Faculty Biographies Neuroscience Emeritus Affiliates Research Areas Students Expand Collapse Undergraduate Courses Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Course Guide WiscMail Resources Expand Collapse Research Links Neuroscience Directory Information Technology UW School of Medicine and Public Health Medical Library McBurney Disability Resource Center Poetry Archive News & Events Expand Collapse Department News Current Events Seminars Job Opportunities Contact Expand Collapse Contact Us Maps & Directions Seminar Rooms Donations PubMed UW Directory UW Email UW Box Home Sousa, Andre M.M. Andre M.M. Sousa Position title: Assistant Professor Email: andre.sousa@wisc.edu Phone: (608) 890-0875 Address: Research Interests - Molecular and cellular mechanisms of human brain development and evolution Visit the Sousa Lab The development of the human brain is a long and complex process that is precisely choreographed through tightly regulated transcriptional programs. Proper regulation of these programs is necessary for developing the numerous functionally distinct regions and cell types of the brain. Since the human brain exhibits morphological, physiological, and neural circuitry differences compared to other species, including other primates, it logically follows that many of these programs are human-specific. Due to both the evolutionarily distance from humans and the different social, cognitive, and motor abilities of classical model organisms, our capability to elucidate human-specific developmental programs has been limited, thus restricting our understanding of the human brains unique morphology, physiology, and connectivity. Importantly, uncovering this knowledge has far-reaching biomedical implications, as human-specific molecular and cellular mechanisms are involved not only in producing the most distinct aspects of human cognition and behavior, but also may underlie psychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders. Our lab aims to identify and characterize the molecular and cellular mechanisms that govern human brain development and evolution, and to apply that knowledge towards understanding neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders. To achieve this goal, we apply a multifaceted approach that combines: 1) Functional genomic studies to identify genes that are critical for proper neurodevelopment and have conserved or human-specific expression profiles. We are also interested in deciphering the regulatory logic of genes with human-specific expression profiles. 2) Developmental neurobiology studies that combine induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, mouse genetic models, and postmortem human and NHP brains to characterize the functions of those candidate genes in the development of the brain. 3) Molecular and cellular biology studies that inform the biological processes that are disrupted by alterations in those genes, particularly the ones that are associated with neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders. Selected Publications *equal contribution Bibliography URL: Google Scholar Werling D*, Pochareddy S*, Choi J*, An JY*, Sheppard B, Peng M, Li Z, Dastmalchi C, Santpere G, Sousa AMM, Tebbenkamp ATN, Kaur N, Gulden F, Breen M, Liang L, Gilson M, Zhao X, Dong S, Klei L, Cicek AE, Buxbaum J, Adle-Biassette H, Thomas J-L, Aldinger KA, ODay DR, Glass I, Zaitlen N, Talkowski M, Roeder K, State MW, Devlin B, Sanders S, Sestan N. (2020) Whole-genome and RNA sequencing reveal variation and transcriptomic coordination in the developing human prefrontal cortex. Cell Rep. 107489. Article Vrselja Z*, Daniele S*, Silbereis J, Talpo F, Morozov YM, Sousa AMM, Tanaka B, Skarica M, Pletikos M, Kaur N, Zhuang Z, Liu Z, Alkawadri R, Sinusas AJ, Waxman S, Latham S, Sestan N. (2019) Ex vivo normothermic restoration of brain circulation and cellular functions hours postmortem. Nature 568, 336343. Article Zhu Y*, Sousa AMM*, Gao T*, Skarica M*, Li M*, Santpere G, Esteller-Cucala P, Juan D, Ferrandez-Peral L, Golden FO, Yang M, Miller DJ, Marques-Bonet T, Kawasawa YI, Zhao H, Sestan N. (2018) Spatiotemporal transcriptomic divergence across human and macaque brain development. Science 362, eaat8077. Article Amiri A*, Coppola G*, Scuderi S*, Wu F*, Roychowdhury T*, Liu F, Pochareddy S, Shin Y, Safi A, Song L, Zhu Y, Sousa AMM, The PsychENCODE Consortium, Gerstein M, Crawford GE, Sestan N, Abyzov A, Vaccarino FM. (2018) The transcriptome and epigenome landscape of human cortical development modeled in brain organoids. Science 362, eaat6720. Article Sousa AMM*, Zhu Y*, Raghanti MA, Kitchen RR, Onorati M, Tebbenkamp ATN, Stutz B, Meyer KA, Li M, Kawasawa YI, Liu F, Perez RG, Mele M, Carvalho T, Skarica M, Gulden FO, Pletikos M, Shibata A, Stephenson AR, Edles MK, Ely JJ, Elsworth JD, Horvath TL, Hof PR, Mane SM, Noonan JP, State MW, Lein ES, Knowles JA, Marques-Bonet T, Sherwood CC, Gerstein MB, Sestan N (2017) Molecular and cellular reorganization of neural circuits in the human lineage. Science 358, 1027-1032. Article Sousa AMM*, Meyer KA*, Santepere G, Gulden FO, Sestan N. (2017) Evolution of the human nervous system function, structure, and development. Cell 170, 226 247. Article Onorati M*, Li Z*, Liu F*, Sousa AMM*, Nakagawa N, Li M, DellAnno MT, Gulden FO, Pochareddy S, Tebbenkamp ATN, Han W, Pletikos M, Gao T, Zhu Y, Bichsel C, Varela L, Szigeti-Buck K, Lisgo S, Zhang Y, Testen A, Gao X-B, Mlakar J, Popovic M, Flamand M, Strittmatter SM, Kaczmarek LK, Anton ES, Horvath TL, Lindenbach BD, Sestan N. (2016) Zika virus disrupts phospho-TBK1 localization and mitosis in human neuroepithelial stem cells and radial glia. Cell Rep. 16, 117. Article Pletikos M*, Sousa AMM*, Sedmak G*, Meyer KA, Zhu Y, Cheng F, Li M, Kawasawa YI, Sestan N (2014) Temporal specification and bilaterality of human neocortical topographic gene expression. Neuron 81, 321-32. Article Kwan KY, Lam MMS, Johnson MB, Dube U, Shim S, Rasin MR, Sousa AMM, Fertuzinhos S, Chen JG, Arellano JI, Chan DW, Pletikos M, Vasung L, Rowitch DH, Huang EJ, Schwartz ML, Willemsen R, Oostra BA, Rakic P, Heffer M, Kostovic I, Judas M, Sestan N. (2012) Species-dependent post-transcriptional regulation of NOS1 by FMRP in the developing cerebral cortex. Cell 149, 899-911. Article Kang HJ*,Kawasawa YI*, Cheng F*, Zhu Y*, Xu X*, Li M*, Sousa AMM, Pletikos M, Meyer KA, Sedmak G, Guennel T, Shin Y, Johnson MB, Krsnik Z, Mayer S, Fertuzinhos S, Umlauf S, Lisgo SN, Vortmeyer A, Weinberger DR, Mane S, Hyde TM, Huttner A, Reimers M, Kleinman JE, Sestan N. (2011) Spatio-temporal transcriptome of the human brain. Nature 478, 483-489. Article Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Home Department News Faculty Biographies Job Opportunities Contact Us Maps & Directions Back to UW-Madison Contact UsDepartment of Neuroscience 1111 Highland Avenue Room 5505 WIMR-II Madison, WI 53705 USA Email: neuro-office@lists.wisc.edu Phone: 608.262.2938 (non-clinical) Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: techsupport@hslc.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | 2021 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
