David Hawthorn | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles David Hawthorn Professor; Associate Chair, Graduate StudiesThe Quantum Materials Spectroscopy group, led by Dr. Hawthorn, studies Quantum Materials using resonant soft x-ray scattering and x-ray absorption spectroscopy at synchrotrons such as the Canadian Light Source. We use these tools to investigate intertwinned order in Quantum Materials and shed light on the long-standing mysteries of high temperature superconductors. Contact information Office: PHY 359; Lab: PHY 113, 114 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 48589 Email:dhawthor@uwaterloo.ca Website:http://dhawthorn.uwaterloo.ca/ Expertise Experimental condensed matter physics X-ray scattering and x-ray spectroscopy Superconductivity Resonant soft x-ray scattering Quantum Materials Research Resonant soft x-ray scattering in cuprate superconductors A grand challenge in condensed matter physics is to identify the fundamental limit for achieving superconductivity at elevated temperatures.Meeting this challenge promises to guide the design of materials where the superconducting transition temperature can reach room temperature, harboring a wealth of transformative technological breakthroughs. The most promising materials for high temperature superconductivity are the cuprate superconductors. These materials have been studied intensively for nearly 30 years. Yet, only recently has it been recognized that superconductivity co-exists with a competing phase of matter, charge-density wave (CDW) order, which has now been shown to be generic to all the cuprates. 1 Measurements by our group on a low disorder sample of YBCO confirmed the origin of the density wave order in CuO2 planes of the cuprates, clarified its relation to the crystal structure and elucidated the microscopic character of the CDW order as arising from a spatial modulation in the energy levels of localized electronic states.2 This latter result followed directly from our groups previous work on stripe-ordered La-based cuprates, where a similar energy modulation was identified.3 Since then, we have extended these studies to investigate the role of atomic random disorder on CDW order in the cuprates.4 We showed that disorder decreases the CDW intensity but, most unexpectedly, has no effect on the correlation length or temperature dependence of CDW order. Our most recent and possibly most significant studies investigated the symmetry of CDW order in La2-xBaxCuO4 and YBCO 5 and electronic nematicity in cuprates6. Development of Resonant Soft X-ray Scattering endstation at the Canadian Light Source To drive discoveries in the spectroscopy of quantum materials, our group has endeavored sdevelop a world-class endstation for resonant elastic soft x-ray scattering at the Canadian Light Source synchrotron in Saskatoon (the REIXS beamline).7 This includes a custom 4-circle UHV diffractometer, a molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) chamber for in-situ sample growth, and a multi-technique sample analysis chamber for photoelectron spectroscopy and UHV atomic force/scanning tunnelling microscopy. Teaching PHYS111, Physics 1 PHYS360/460, Modern/Advance Physics Laboratory Highlighted Publications Nematicity in stripe-ordered cuprates probed via resonant x-ray scattering. A. J. Achkar, M. Zwiebler, Christopher McMahon, F. He, R. Sutarto, Isaiah Djianto, Zhihao Hao, Michel J. P. Gingras, M. Hcker, G. D. Gu, A. Revcolevschi, H. Zhang, Y.-J. Kim, J. Geck and D. G. Hawthorn Science 351, 576 (2016) Orbital symmetry of charge density wave order in La1.875Ba0.125CuO4and YBa2Cu3O6.67. A. J. Achkar, F. He, R. Sutarto, Christopher McMahon, M. Zwiebler, M. Hucker, G. D. Gu, Ruixing Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, J. Geck and D. G. Hawthorn Nature Materials 15, 616 (2016). Impact of quenched oxygen disorder on charge density wave order in YBa2Cu3O6+x. A. J. Achkar, X. Mao, Christopher McMahon, R. Sutarto, F. He, Ruixing Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy and D. G. Hawthorn Phys. Rev. Lett.113, 107002 (2014). Distinct charge orders in the planes and chains of ortho-III ordered YBa2Cu3O6+superconductors identified by resonant elastic x-ray scattering A. J. Achkar, R. Sutarto, X. Mao, F. He, A. Frano, S. Blanco-Canosa, M. Le Tacon, G. Ghiringhelli, L. Braicovich, M. Minola, M. Moretti Sala, C. Mazzoli, Ruixing Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, B. Keimer, G. A. Sawatzky and D. G. Hawthorn. Phys. Rev. Lett.109, 167001 (2012). Bulk Sensitive X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy Free of Self-Absorption Effects. A. J. Achkar, T. Z. Regier, H. Wadati, Y.-J. Kim, H. Zhang, D. G. Hawthorn. Phys. Rev. B83, 081106R (2011). Please see GoogleScholar for a complete list of Dr. Hawthorn's publications. Awards and Distinctions 2004 2006 National Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada Postdoctoral Fellowship 2003, Lachlan Gilchrist Fellowship 2002, E.F. Burton Fellowship Professional Associations and Service 2015 - present:Fellow, CIFARQuantum Materials Program 2013-2014 Chair, User's Advisory Committee, Canadian Light Source 2011-2015 Member, User's Advisory Committee, Canadian Light Source Media The following news stories have featured Dr.Hawthorn's research: February 6, 2016:New properties of superconductivity discovered February 5, 2016: Room-temperature superconductors get 1 step closer,CBC News. February 4, 2016:Physicists discover new properties of superconductivity September 23, 2015:Transportation Public Lecture brings community together for Science Literacy Week Degrees 2004 PhD Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 2000MSc Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 1999BScPhysics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
