James Forrest | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles James Forrest ProfessorDr. Forrest'sresearch is focused on the behaviour of soft materials at the nanoscale. This includes self assembly of polymers, dynamics in thin films and near surface and interfaces. Hehas a long standing interest on the dynamics of glassy materials. Contact information Office: PHY 360 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 42161 Email: jforrest@uwaterloo.ca Website:https://uwaterloo.ca/polymer-physics/ Expertise Physics of soft materials Physics of polymer thin films Crystalline polymers Polymer interfaces and adhesion Confinement of polymer chains Glass transition in confined geometry Research Dynamics in thin polymer films The Waterloo Polymer Physics group has made many important contributions to the study of the glass transition in thin polymer films. The general premise of such studies is that the dynamics in thin films can be significantly different from that of the bulk polymer. From an applied point of view the glass transition is an important parameter describing the temperature dependent dynamics of the system. These properties in turn largely determine which application a particular material is suited for. From a more fundamental viewpoint, thin polymer films provide excellent sample geometry for studying what are termed finite size effects in model glass forming materials. This may lead to significant advances in our understanding of this outstanding unsolved problem in condensed matter physics. Our studies here have focused on measurements of the glass transition temperature, as well as more direct studies of the dynamics. We have used ellipsometry, photon correlation spectroscopy, dielectric relaxation, quartz crystal microbalance, and inelastic neutron scattering in these studies. Properties of polymer surfaces and interfaces There are a number of reasons to think that the properties of polymers may be different at interfaces and surfaces than in the bulk of a material. We have been actively involved in this area from looking at the adhesion of micron sized particles to Porous Silicon (PS) surfaces, embedding of nm sized particle to PS surfaces and looking at interface formation between miscible and immiscible blends when one of the constituents is still in a glassy state. Structural properties in thin films Structural as well dynamical properties can be different in a thin film geometry. We are interested in fundamental questions such as, "What is the density in a thin film?" as well as more applied questions like, "What is the composition in blended systems, or those with impurities?". Our studies in this are span a very wide range. We have used optical scattering techniques, microscopy, dynamics secondary ion mass spectroscopy and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy to study these sample. Biopolymers at surfaces and interfaces Proteins have specific conformations which define their biologically active state. These configurations are typically determined by the details of interactions between the different constituent monomers as well as interactions with the aqueous solution. This delicate balance of interactions which is required to have a protein remain in a biologically active state can be significantly perturbed by the presence ofinterfaces. The monomer-surface interaction can potentially be much stronger than hydropobic interactions which cause the molecule to campactify and leave open the possibility not only for the protein to adsorb onto the surface but also to denature onto it. We are beginning to investigate proteins at interfaces. Teaching AMATH261 PHYS111, Physics 1 PHYS112, Physics 2 PHYS263, Classical Mechanics and Special Relativity PHYS358, Thermal Physics PHYS364, Mathematical Physics 1 Highlighted Publications Mohit S Verma, Jackson M Tsuji, Brad Hall, Paul Z Chen, James Forrest, Lyndon Jones, Frank X Gu. "Towards point-of-care detection of polymicrobial infections: rapid colorimetric response using a portable spectrophotometer".Sensing and Bio-Sensing Research, 2016 Maxence Arutkin, Elie Raphal, James A Forrest, Thomas Salez. "Cooperative strings in glassy nanoparticles".arXiv:1603.07539, 2016 Yu Chai, James Forrest. "Crystallization of atactic polystyrene".APS Meeting Abstracts, 2016 Kari Dalnoki-Veress, James A Forrest. "New section for The European Physical Journal E:Tips and Tricks in Soft Matter and Biological Physics.The European Physical Journal E, 38, 12 [1] Thomas Salez, Justin Salez, Kari Dalnoki-Veress, Elie Raphal, James A Forrest. "Cooperative strings and glassy interfaces".Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 112, 27 [8227-8231] Please see Google Scholarfor a complete list of Dr. Forrest'spublications. Awards and Distinctions 2013, Brockhouse Medal, Canadian Association of Physicists (CAP) 2008Fellowship in American Physical Society University of Waterloo Affiliations Associate Faculty Member, Perimeter Institute for TheoreticalPhysics Member, Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology Member, Institute for Polymer Research Member,Centre for Bioengineering and Biotechnology Professional Associations and Service Academic Program Director, Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics 2010: Acting Associate Director of Research and Grad Studies, School of Pharmacy, University of Waterloo 2010: Associate Dean of Research, Faculty of Science, University of Waterloo 2009: Director, Materials Science and Nanotechnology, North Dakota State University 2005 - 2009: Director, Guelph Waterloo Physics Institute Media The following news stories have featured Dr.Forrest's research: June 29, 2015:Physicists shatter stubborn mystery of how glass forms. June 29, 2015:Secret Behind Glass Formation is Shattered. June 30,2015:Glass Formation Mystery Shattered By Physicists. February 28, 2014: Physicists solve 20-year-old debate surrounding how glassy surfaces flow like a liquid. May 6, 2013: Brockhouse Medal recognizes groundbreaking scientists. Degrees 1994 PhD Physics/Atomic & Molecular Physics, University of Guelph 1990 MScPhysics/Atomic & Molecular Physics, University of Guelph 1987 BSc Physics, University of British Columbia Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
