Adrian Lupascu | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Adrian Lupascu Associate Professor; Associate ChairDr. Lupascuis an experimental physicist interested in the quantum dynamics of various types of physical systems and the application of quantum effects to build new types of detectors and quantum information processors. HisSuperconducting Quantum Device labfocuses on experimental research with superconducting devices, ranging from quantum bits for quantum information experiments, to superconducting resonators for loss characterization, among other projects. Contact information Office: QNC 2202; RAC1 2112 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 35468 Email:alupascu@uwaterloo.ca Website: Superconducting Quantum Devices Group Expertise Quantum computing with superconducting quantum circuits Decoherence in superconducting devices Quantum sensing Quantum optics with superconducting circuits Hybrid systems for quantum information processing Research Dr. Lupascu and his research group investigate quantum effects in solid state devices. The physical systems we are primarily interested in consist of nanostrucutured superconductors with Josephson junctions. With proper design and experimental control, these systems behave as artificial atoms. We are interested in using superconducting quantum devices as quantum bits (or qubits), which are the basic units of quantum information processors. In addition, we use the strong interaction between superconducting devices and eletromagnetic fields to explore new phenomena in quantum optics and quantum measurement with applications to amplification and sensing. Current projects include Quantum Computing with Superconducting Devices Microwave dielectric loss in amorphous solids at low temperatures Microwave photons in superconducting circuits Quantum sensors based on superconducting devices Hybrid superconductor / semiconductor devices Teaching PHYS461, Nanophysics PHYS 731,Solid State Physics PHYS768, Topics in Quantum Info Process PHYS 773 - Nanoelectronics for Quantum Computing Highlighted Publications Flux qubits in a planar circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture: quantum control and decoherence, J.-L. Orgiazzi, C. Deng, D. Layden, R. Marchildon, F. Kitapli, F. Shen, M. Bal, F. R. Ong, A. Lupascu,Physical Review B93, 104518 (2016),Arxiv Observation of Floquet states in a strongly driven artificial atom, Chunqing Deng, Jean-Luc Orgiazzi, Feiruo Shen, Sahel Ashhab, Adrian Lupascu,Physical Review Letters115, 133601 (2015),Arxiv. Suspended graphene devices with local gate control on an insulating substrate, F. R. Ong, Z. Cui, M. A. Yurtalan, C. Vojvodin, M. Papaj, J.-L. F. X. Orgiazzi, C. Deng, M. Bal, A. Lupascu,Nanotechnology26405201 (2015),Arxiv. Dynamics of parametric fluctuations induced by quasiparticle tunneling in superconducting flux qubits, M. Bal, M. H. Ansari, J.-L. Orgiazzi, R. M. Lutchyn, and A. Lupascu,Physical Review B91, 195434 (2015),Arxiv. Quantum physics: The path most travelled, A. Lupascu,Nature, News and Views511, 538 (2014),Arxiv. Please see Dr. Lupascu's research site fora complete list of hispublications. Awards and Distinctions 2011, Early Researcher Award, Ontario Ministry of Research and Innovation 2011, Research Fellow, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation 2007, Marie Curie Fellowship University of Waterloo Affiliations Faculty, Institute for Quantum Computing Member, Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology Cross appointed faculty, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Degrees 2005 PhD Physics, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands 2000BScPhysics, University of Bucharest, Romania Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
