Researcher profiles | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Researcher profiles Norbert Ltkenhaus Professor Professor Ltkenhaus' research group explores the interface between quantum communication theory and quantum optical implementations. Theytranslate between abstract protocols (described by qubits) and physical implementations (described for example by laser pulses); theybenchmark implementations to properly characterize quantum advantage andexploit quantum mechanical structures for use in quantum communication. Robert Mann Professor Professor Mann workson gravitation, quantum physics, and the overlap between these two subjects. Heisinterested in questions that provide us with information about the foundations of physics, particularly those that could be tested by experiment. Matteo Mariantoni Associate Professor Dr. Mariantonihasa strong background in cutting-edge research on superconducting qubits and circuit quantum electrodynamics. He specializes inthe experimental realization of low-level microwave detection schemes and pulsing techniques that allow for the measurement of ultra-low quantum signals generated by superconducting qubits coupled to on-chip resonators. James Martin Associate Professor Dr. Martinstudiesbasic atomic, molecular and optical physics. Mark Matsen Professor; University Research Chair Dr. Matsen's research focuses on theory and simulations involving the self-assembly of nanostructured polymers, such as block copolymers, liquid-crystalline polymers, polyelectrolytes and polymeric brushes. While he continues to build on his reputation for self-consistent field theory (SCFT), Professor Matsen is currently developing the next generation of theoretical techniques, specifically field-theoretic simulations (FTS). Brian McNamara Professor; Department Chair; University Research Chair in Astrophysics Giant black holes weighing upwards of one billion times the mass of the Sun are thought to lurk at the centers of all massive galaxies. Energy released by spin breaking and infalling matter onto such supermassive black holes may be regulating the growth of galaxies and clusters of galaxies. Roger Melko Professor; Canada Research Chair in Computational Many-Body Physics Dr. Melko's research interests involve strongly-correlated many-body systems, with a focus on emergent phenomena, ground state phases, phase transitions, quantum criticality, and entanglement. Heemphasizes computational methods as a theoretical technique, in particular the development of state-of-the-art algorithms for the study of strongly-interacting systems. Christine Muschik Assistant Professor Dr. Muschikis an expert in the theory of quantum communication and quantum simulation. Quantum communication exploits the features of quantum mechanical systems for advantages in communication tasks, such as unbreakable security or significant reductions in the resources required to send a message. Will Percival Professor; Distinguished Research Chair in Astrophysics Professor Percival's research interests focus on the properties of the Universe on the largest scales. Surveys of three-dimensional galaxy positions provide a wealth of data both on the physics just after the Big-Bang when the seed fluctuations that will grow through gravity to become galaxies were created, and on the physics driving the evolution of the Universe today. Dmitry Pushin Associate Professor Dmitry Pushinuses his broad background to apply quantum information processing methods to improve neutron interferometry, with the goal of making it accessible to the general scientific community as a resource for studying fundamental questions of physics, dark energy, phase transitions in condensed matter, magnetic materials in functional devices and materials science. Kevin Resch Professor; Canada Research Chair in Optical Quantum Technologies Dr.Reschuses experimental quantum physics to understand photon entanglement and quantum information science. His work focuses on generating new quantum states of light with applications ranging from quantum computing to future medical imaging. Pooya Ronagh Research Assistant Professor Dr. Ronaghs research interests involve algorithmic aspects of quantum computation. He explores novel applications of quantum computation by designing and analysing quantum algorithms for solving computational challenges wherein the classical state of the art is costly machine learning and high-performance computing. Joseph Sanderson Associate Professor Dr. Sanderson's research and that of his students focuses on the study of how matter interacts with intense Femtosecond laser pulses. One of the ways which the interaction of matter with femtosecond laser pulses can be utilised is as a means of imaging some of the smallest fastest moving and most complex units of matter, molecules. Gunter Scholz Associate Professor Dr. Scholzuses electron microscopy to determine the compositional and crystallographic structure of compounds. His facility houses a Philips CM20Super Twin High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope, and he invitesresearchers to make use of this modern, high voltage equipment. Crystal Senko Assistant Professor and Canada Research Chair in Trapped Ion Quantum Computing Dr. Senkos research focuses on using trapped ions for quantum simulations and quantum computing applications. Her work also explores qudits and how to improve the efficiency of encoding a logical unit of information using the multiple levels of a qudit. Donna Strickland Professor Donna Strickland is a professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Waterloo and is one of the recipients of the Nobel Prize in Physics 2018 for developing chirped pulse amplification with Grard Mourou, her PhD supervisor at the time. They published this Nobel-winning research in 1985 when Strickland was a PhD student at the University of Rochester in New York state. Together they paved the way toward the most intense laser pulses ever created. The research has several applications today in industry and medicine including the cutting of a patients cornea in laser eye surgery, and the machining of small glass parts for use in cell phones. James Taylor Associate Professor; Undergraduate Advisor - Physics & Astronomy Dr. Tayloris using whatever tools he can, including numerical simulations, astrophysical theory and observational data, to try to figure what dark matter is, where it is, and how it behaves. His research includes gravitational lensing and dynamical studies of galaxy clusters, the properties of the smallest galaxies in the local universe, and the theory behind dark matter halos around galaxies and clusters. Russell Thompson Associate Professor Dr. Thompson works with self-consistent field theory and density functional theory. David Yevick Professor Professor Yevick' sresearch group delivers practical, innovative and leading-edge solutions to industry while developing general physical and mathematical results and techniques that can be employed in wide areas of applied physics. Pages first previous 1 2 Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
