People profiles | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyOur People People profiles Niayesh Afshordi Associate Professor Dr.Afshordi dabbles in Astrophysics, Cosmology, and Physics of gravity andisobsessed with observational hints that could help address problems in fundamental physics. Michael Balogh Professor Professor Balogh's research uses the worlds largest telescopes to study the physical properties of distant galaxies. Through spectroscopy we can learn about the distances, ages, chemical composition and star formation histories of these galaxies. Kostadinka Bizheva Professor; Graduate Officer Dr. Bizheva's research focuses on the development of novel optical imaging technology (Optical Coherence Tomography - OCT) that can be used in clinics to image various part of the human body for diagnostic purposes or for monitoring the outcome of drug therapy or surgery. Avery Broderick Associate Professor Dr. Broderick works to explain the fundamental physics of black holes and their observable characteristics.Black holes are sites where strong gravity dominates everything, from the dynamics of orbiting material to the shape of spacetime itself. As a result, they are the engines that power some of the brightest objects in the universe. Raffi Budakian Professor; University of Waterloo Endowed Chair in Nanotechnology Professor Budakian's work in the past decade has focused on developing the experimental tools for ultra sensitive detection of electron and nuclear spins. He explores the application of these tools to address fundamental questions ranging from biology to quantum information. Anton Burkov Professor Dr. Burkov is a theoretical condensed matter physicist, currently focusing on the effects of nontrivial electronic structure topology and electron-electron interactionson experimentally observable properties of quantum materials. Melanie Campbell Professor Dr. Campbellleads a highly multidisciplinary research group where theystudy ocular development, eye disease, and linear and non-linear optics of the eye. Theyinvestigate the fundamental refractive properties of the eye's components to improve diagnosis and therapy for various ocular conditions. Jeff Z.Y. Chen Professor; University Research Chair Soft matter is a cross disciplinary research field involving physics, chemistry, biology, and materials science. Dr. Chen uses basic tools such as statistical physics, field theory, neural networks, and computer simulations to study structural formation in polymers and liquid crystals. Kyung Soo Choi Assistant Professor Dr. Choi'sresearch focuses on the development and application of the most advanced techniques in cold atom physics and quantum optics to probe the fundamental nature of the quantum world and to investigate macroscopic quantum phenomena with strongly interacting atoms and photons near nanoscale structures. Michel Fich Professor Dr.Fich is an astronomer specializing in studies of star formation, the interstellar medium, and the structure of galaxies. His recent research activities have focused on small scale formation studies of low and intermediate mass stars, circumstellar disks, and the formation of proto-solar systems. James Forrest Professor Dr. Forrest'sresearch is focused on the behaviour of soft materials at the nanoscale. This includes self assembly of polymers, dynamics in thin films and near surface and interfaces. Hehas a long standing interest on the dynamics of glassy materials. Michel Gingras Professor and Canada Research Chair in Condensed Matter Physics & Statistical Mechanics ProfessorGingras main interests are in the field of theoretical condensed matter physics, with a focus on systems with random disorder. He is also interested in strongly correlated classical and quantum condensed matter systems subject to strongly competing, or frustrated, interactions. Bae-Yeun Ha Professor; Undergraduate Advisor - Life Physics In Professor Ha's research group, theyexplore a few theoretical problems in soft matter and biophysics, namely, chromosomes in living cells and lipid bilayer membranes. David Hawthorn Professor; Associate Chair, Graduate Studies The Quantum Materials Spectroscopy group, led by Dr. Hawthorn, studies Quantum Materials using resonant soft x-ray scattering and x-ray absorption spectroscopy at synchrotrons such as the Canadian Light Source. We use these tools to investigate intertwinned order in Quantum Materials and shed light on the long-standing mysteries of high temperature superconductors. Robert Hill Associate Professor; Teaching Fellow Dr. Hill's research is focused onthe experimental study of materials whose exotic properties are dominated by the collective quantum mechanical nature of their electrons and defy explanation using current theoretical paradigms. Michael Hudson Professor Broadly speaking, ProfessorHudson's research is in observational and theoretical cosmology, particularlyGalaxy Formation, and measuring the properties of dark matter and dark energy throughGravitational Lensing,Cosmic FlowsandLarge-scale Structure. Stefan Idziak Associate Professor; Associate Dean of Science, Computing and Co-operative Education; Undergraduate Advisor Stefan Idziak studies complex fluids using X-ray diffraction. Contact information Office: PHY 250 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 35580 Email:idziak@uwaterloo.ca K. Rajibul Islam Assistant Professor Dr. Rajibul Islam's research interests are in quantum information processing, in particular quantum simulation and computation. His research team is building a quantum simulator with laser-cooled trapped ions to simulate models of interacting quantum many-particle systems. Dr. Islam is also involved in building 'QuantumIon', a multi-user, open-access trapped-ion quantum computer at Waterloo. Alan Jamison Assistant Professor Dr. Jamison's group uses lasers to cool atoms to within a few billionths of a degree of absolute zero, making the coldest systems in the known universe. At these temperatures, atoms can be made to mimic interesting quantum systems from condensed matter, nuclear, and high-energy particle physics. Thomas Jennewein Associate Professor Dr. Jennewein's main research passion is how to achieve quantum communications and a Quantum Internet on a global scale. In particular heiscurrently pursuing the use of satellites to accomplish intercontinental distances, and is possible with todays technology. Jan Kycia Professor Dr. Kycia's group works on the experimental investigation of superconducting and quantum mechanical devices; in particular Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) and GaAs quantum dots (Spin Qubits).The experiments are runat ultra low temperatures (down to 0.004K). Raymond Laflamme Professor; Canada Research Chair in Quantum Computing Would using quantum mechanics for information processing be an impediment or could it be an advantage? This is the fundamental question in the field of quantum information processing (QIP). QIP is a young field with an incredible potential impact reaching from the way we understand fundamental physics to technological applications. Zoya Leonenko Professor Dr.Leonenko leads a nanoscale biophysics research group which uses advanced scanning probe microscopy methods to study biophysics of lipids and lipid-protein interactions, interactions of nanoparticles with lipid membrane and monolayers, and to develop novel application of lipid films in biomedical nanotechnology and biosensing. Qing-Bin Lu Professor; University Research Chair; Undergraduate Advisor - Chemical Physics Professor Lus research programs cross disciplines in physics, chemistry, environment, climate, biology and medicine, particularly focusing on femtomedicine and cancer therapy, as well as the sciences of atmospheric ozone depletion (the ozone hole) and global climate change (global warming). Adrian Lupascu Associate Professor; Associate Chair Dr. Lupascuis an experimental physicist interested in the quantum dynamics of various types of physical systems and the application of quantum effects to build new types of detectors and quantum information processors. HisSuperconducting Quantum Device labfocuses on experimental research with superconducting devices, ranging from quantum bits for quantum information experiments, to superconducting resonators for loss characterization, among other projects. Norbert Ltkenhaus Professor Professor Ltkenhaus' research group explores the interface between quantum communication theory and quantum optical implementations. Theytranslate between abstract protocols (described by qubits) and physical implementations (described for example by laser pulses); theybenchmark implementations to properly characterize quantum advantage andexploit quantum mechanical structures for use in quantum communication. Robert Mann Professor Professor Mann workson gravitation, quantum physics, and the overlap between these two subjects. Heisinterested in questions that provide us with information about the foundations of physics, particularly those that could be tested by experiment. Matteo Mariantoni Associate Professor Dr. Mariantonihasa strong background in cutting-edge research on superconducting qubits and circuit quantum electrodynamics. He specializes inthe experimental realization of low-level microwave detection schemes and pulsing techniques that allow for the measurement of ultra-low quantum signals generated by superconducting qubits coupled to on-chip resonators. James Martin Associate Professor Dr. Martinstudiesbasic atomic, molecular and optical physics. Mark Matsen Professor; University Research Chair Dr. Matsen's research focuses on theory and simulations involving the self-assembly of nanostructured polymers, such as block copolymers, liquid-crystalline polymers, polyelectrolytes and polymeric brushes. While he continues to build on his reputation for self-consistent field theory (SCFT), Professor Matsen is currently developing the next generation of theoretical techniques, specifically field-theoretic simulations (FTS). Brian McNamara Professor; Department Chair; University Research Chair in Astrophysics Giant black holes weighing upwards of one billion times the mass of the Sun are thought to lurk at the centers of all massive galaxies. Energy released by spin breaking and infalling matter onto such supermassive black holes may be regulating the growth of galaxies and clusters of galaxies. Roger Melko Professor; Canada Research Chair in Computational Many-Body Physics Dr. Melko's research interests involve strongly-correlated many-body systems, with a focus on emergent phenomena, ground state phases, phase transitions, quantum criticality, and entanglement. Heemphasizes computational methods as a theoretical technique, in particular the development of state-of-the-art algorithms for the study of strongly-interacting systems. Christine Muschik Assistant Professor Dr. Muschikis an expert in the theory of quantum communication and quantum simulation. Quantum communication exploits the features of quantum mechanical systems for advantages in communication tasks, such as unbreakable security or significant reductions in the resources required to send a message. Will Percival Professor; Distinguished Research Chair in Astrophysics Professor Percival's research interests focus on the properties of the Universe on the largest scales. Surveys of three-dimensional galaxy positions provide a wealth of data both on the physics just after the Big-Bang when the seed fluctuations that will grow through gravity to become galaxies were created, and on the physics driving the evolution of the Universe today. Dmitry Pushin Associate Professor Dmitry Pushinuses his broad background to apply quantum information processing methods to improve neutron interferometry, with the goal of making it accessible to the general scientific community as a resource for studying fundamental questions of physics, dark energy, phase transitions in condensed matter, magnetic materials in functional devices and materials science. Kevin Resch Professor; Canada Research Chair in Optical Quantum Technologies Dr.Reschuses experimental quantum physics to understand photon entanglement and quantum information science. His work focuses on generating new quantum states of light with applications ranging from quantum computing to future medical imaging. Pooya Ronagh Research Assistant Professor Dr. Ronaghs research interests involve algorithmic aspects of quantum computation. He explores novel applications of quantum computation by designing and analysing quantum algorithms for solving computational challenges wherein the classical state of the art is costly machine learning and high-performance computing. Joseph Sanderson Associate Professor Dr. Sanderson's research and that of his students focuses on the study of how matter interacts with intense Femtosecond laser pulses. One of the ways which the interaction of matter with femtosecond laser pulses can be utilised is as a means of imaging some of the smallest fastest moving and most complex units of matter, molecules. Gunter Scholz Associate Professor Dr. Scholzuses electron microscopy to determine the compositional and crystallographic structure of compounds. His facility houses a Philips CM20Super Twin High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope, and he invitesresearchers to make use of this modern, high voltage equipment. Crystal Senko Assistant Professor and Canada Research Chair in Trapped Ion Quantum Computing Dr. Senkos research focuses on using trapped ions for quantum simulations and quantum computing applications. Her work also explores qudits and how to improve the efficiency of encoding a logical unit of information using the multiple levels of a qudit. Donna Strickland Professor Donna Strickland is a professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Waterloo and is one of the recipients of the Nobel Prize in Physics 2018 for developing chirped pulse amplification with Grard Mourou, her PhD supervisor at the time. They published this Nobel-winning research in 1985 when Strickland was a PhD student at the University of Rochester in New York state. Together they paved the way toward the most intense laser pulses ever created. The research has several applications today in industry and medicine including the cutting of a patients cornea in laser eye surgery, and the machining of small glass parts for use in cell phones. James Taylor Associate Professor; Undergraduate Advisor - Physics & Astronomy Dr. Tayloris using whatever tools he can, including numerical simulations, astrophysical theory and observational data, to try to figure what dark matter is, where it is, and how it behaves. His research includes gravitational lensing and dynamical studies of galaxy clusters, the properties of the smallest galaxies in the local universe, and the theory behind dark matter halos around galaxies and clusters. Russell Thompson Associate Professor Dr. Thompson works with self-consistent field theory and density functional theory. David Yevick Professor Professor Yevick' sresearch group delivers practical, innovative and leading-edge solutions to industry while developing general physical and mathematical results and techniques that can be employed in wide areas of applied physics. Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
