Jeff Z.Y. Chen | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Jeff Z.Y. Chen Professor; University Research ChairSoft matter is a cross disciplinary research field involving physics, chemistry, biology, and materials science. Dr. Chen uses basic tools such as statistical physics, field theory, neural networks, and computer simulations to study structural formation in polymers and liquid crystals. Contact information Office: PHY 367 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 45361 Email: jeffchen@uwaterloo.ca Website: Jeff Chen, University of Waterloo Expertise Condensed matter physics theory Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics computer simulations Biological physics Polymers and biopolymers Research Soft matter is a cross disciplinary research field involving physics, chemistry, biology, and materials science. It studies physical systems that can be deformed relatively easily in response to external and internal physical and chemical conditions. Examples include colloids, polymers, gels, liquid crystals, and a number of biological systems. These materials compete with and sometimes outperform the traditional solid-state materials. Soft matter theory is a field that has seen vast new developments in the last half century, in both fundamental and applied research. My research group has built a comprehensive soft-matter-theory research program that covers a number of challenging problems in polymers, membranes, and liquid crystals. The primary thrust is to establish a fundamental understanding of the structures, states, and dynamics of soft matter systems such as semiflexible polymers, as well as liquid crystals and their defect structures. The main research tool is statistical physics, which includes scaling theory, Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics simulations, and field-theory simulations. Example Problems Block copolymers are basic building blocks that can be used to design exquisitely tailored materials with unparalleled control over nanoscale-domain geometry, packing symmetry, and chemical composition. Semiflexibility is a factor that plays a crucial role in the conformational properties of wormlike polymer chains. Formulating as well as solving the self-consistent field theory for wormlike copolymers that take semiflexibility into account has long been known as one of the main challenges in polymer physics. We developed a numerical technique to calculate the phase diagram where semiflexibility is one of the additional tuning parameter beyond the classical phase diagram of flexible diblock copolymers. [Y. Jiang and J. Z. Y. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 138305 (2013); J. Z. Y. Chen, Prog. Polym Science 54-55, 3 (2016)] In recent years, a whole body of knowledge has been generated on defect structures resulting from placing a liquid crystal within a finite geometry that frustrates the director field. The natural tendency of forming a uniform bulk nematic configuration is interrupted by the curvature of the embedded surface or boundary conditions of the confining walls. We studied the extended Onsager model that contains identifiable physical parameters instead of phenomenological parameters used in Landau-de Gennes and Frank elastic models. We theoretically presented a unified phase diagram for the evolution of defect structures from the isotropic-nematic transition to a deep nematic state, over a wide range of parameter space. For the first time, we captured the results observed in recent Monte Carlo simulations and calculated from the Frank model all within one unified physical picture. [W.-Y. Zhang, Y. Jiang and J. Z. Y. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 057801 (2012). Q. Liang, S. Ye, P. Zhang, and J. Z. Y. Chen, J. Chem. Phys. 141, 244901(2014)] Teaching PHYS359, Statistical Mechanics PHYS363, Intermediate Classical Mechanics PHYS364, Mathematical Physics 1 PHYS704, Statistical Physics 1 PHYS706, Electromagnetic Theory Highlighted Publications Chen, J.Z.Y.Theory of wormlike polymer chains in confinement, Prog. Poly. Sci (2016)volume numbers54-55, pp.3-46. Li, Y., Miao, H., Ma, H., Chen, J.Z.Y.Topological defects of tetratic liquid-crystal order on a soft spherical surface, Soft Matter (48) volumenumber 9, pp.11461-11466. Jiang, Y., Chen, J.Z.Y.Influence of Chain Rigidity on the Phase Behavior of Wormlike Diblock Copolymers,Phys Rev Lett.(2013), volume number110, 138305(1)-138305(5). Su, Y.C., Chen, J.Z.Y.A model of vesicle tubulation and pearling induced by adsorbing particles,Soft matter (20) volume number 11, pp.4054-4060. Meng, F., Chen, J.Z.Y., Doi, M., Ouyang, Z.The phase diagram and radial collapse of an inflated soft tube under twist,Soft Matter (35) volume number11, pp.7046-7052. Please see Google Scholarfor a complete list of Professor Chen's publications. Awards and Distinctions 2015, Fellow, American Physical Society University of Waterloo Affiliations Cross-appointed faculty, Department of Chemistry Affiliate member, Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics Professional Associations and Service 2008-2016, Physics and Astronomy Departmental Chair,University of Waterloo 2002-2007, Associate Dean of Computing, Faculty of Science,University of Waterloo Degrees 1988 PhD Physics, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, U.S.A. 1982BScPhysics, Fudan University, Shanghai, China Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
