K. Rajibul Islam | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles K. Rajibul Islam Assistant ProfessorDr. Rajibul Islam's research interests are in quantum information processing, in particular quantum simulation and computation. His research team is building a quantum simulator with laser-cooled trapped ions to simulate models of interacting quantum many-particle systems. Dr. Islam is also involved in building 'QuantumIon', a multi-user, open-access trapped-ion quantum computer at Waterloo. Contact information Office:QNC 4109 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext.31995 Email:krislam@uwaterloo.ca Website:Quantum Information with Trapped Ions Expertise Experimental quantum many-body physics with ultra-cold atomic ions Quantum Computing Entanglement in strongly correlated matter, experimental schemes to measure entanglement Frustrated spin systems, and their experimental realization with synthetic cold matter Fully connected spin networks using trapped ions Research Manyoutstanding problems of modern physics involve understanding the origin and properties of strongly interactingquantum systems. Such correlated quantum systems such as the high-Tc superconductors andquark-gluon plasma in a particle collider are present in various energy scales.In an interacting quantum system, entanglement or non-classical correlations between parts oftenmakes theoretical or numerical analysis intractable. An experimental way to solve this problem is to simulate quantum models using well-controlled quantum systems in the laboratory. In these experimental quantum simulators, it is possible to add complexitiesand increase the system size in a controlled way. Thelongquantum coherence in these systems allow their temporalevolutionfollowing the quantum laws of nature. The task of the experimentalist is then to initialize the system in a known state, engineer the desired quantum Hamiltonian, let the system evolve inisolation from its environment, and finally measure the outcome. The knowledge gained from studying non-trivialquantummodels can potentially lead to the understanding of exotic quantum phases of matter, and givefundamental insights towards realizingquantum computers. The main research focus of the QITI laboratory is to use laser-cooled trapped ions to simulate non-trivial quantum Hamiltonians. The long range Coulomb interaction between the ionswould be exploited to engineer versatile spin Hamiltonians. The spin interactions can be tuned, in principle arbitrarily, and the individual spins can be detected with near perfection.Multi-spin interactions can be created, allowing us to study interacting (spinless) Fermions. Further, the phonons associated with the collective vibrational modes enable us to study interacting bosonic Hamiltonians, such as the Bose-Hubbard model. While trapped ions normally have long quantum coherence, one can introduce dissipationin a controlled way for studying open quantum systems. Interacting Hamiltonians and open quantum systems are often hard to simulate on classical computers, and may become intractable beyond 30-40 spins. The QITI laboratory aims to work in the regime where classical computation is difficultor intractable. >> learn more about Dr. Islam's research Highlighted Publications Machine learning design of a trapped-ion quantum spin simulatorY. H. Teoh,M. Drygala, R. G. Melko,and R. Islam.Quantum Sci. Technol. 5, 024001, (2020);arXiv:1910.02496 Dynamical Hamiltonian engineering of 2D rectangular lattices in a one-dimensional ion chainF. Rajabi,S. Motlakunta,C. Shih,N. Kotibhaskar,Q. Quraishi, A. Ajoy,and R. Islam.npj Quantum Inf 5, 32, (2019);arXiv:1808.06124 Measuring entanglement entropy in a quantum many-body system Rajibul Islam, Ruichao Ma, Philipp M. Preiss, M. Eric Tai, Alexander Lukin, Matthew Rispoli, and Markus Greiner. Nature 528, 77 (2015),Nature News and Views Strongly Correlated Quantum Walks in Optical Lattices Philipp M. Preiss, Ruichao Ma, M. Eric Tai, Alexander Lukin, Matthew Rispoli, Philip Zupancic, Yoav Lahini,Rajibul Islam, and Markus Greiner Science 347, 6225 (2015),Science Perspective, arXiv:1409.3100 Emergence and Frustration of Magnetic Order with Variable-Range Interactions in a Trapped Ion Quantum Simulator R. Islam, C. Senko, W. C. Campbell, S. Korenblit, J. Smith, A. Lee, E. E. Edwards, C.-C. J. Wang, J. K. Freericks, and C. Monroe, Science 340, 583 (2013), arXiv1210.0142 Onset of a Quantum Phase Transition with a Trapped Ion Quantum SimulatorR. Islam, E. E. Edwards, K. Kim, S. Korenblit, C. Noh, H. Carmichael, G.-D.Lin, L.-M. Duan, C.-C. Wang, J. K. Freericks and C. Monroe Nature Communications 2:377 (2011) arXiv:1103.2400, JQI press release A complete list of Dr. Islam's publications is available on his research site. Awards and Distinctions 2019: Early Researcher Award, Government of Ontario 2013: Distinguished Dissertation Award, University of Maryland 2011: Best paper award, DARPA Optical Lattice Emulator project 2007: Honorable Mention - Ralph D. Myers Teaching Assistant Award For Excellence in Teaching, University of Maryland University of Waterloo Affiliations Faculty, Institute for Quantum Computing Degrees 2012 Ph.D. in Physics, University of Maryland, College Park 2007M.Sc. in Physics, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai 2005B.Sc. in Physics, Jadavpur University, Kolkata Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
