Michael Hudson | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Michael Hudson ProfessorBroadly speaking, ProfessorHudson's research is in observational and theoretical cosmology, particularlyGalaxy Formation, and measuring the properties of dark matter and dark energy throughGravitational Lensing,Cosmic FlowsandLarge-scale Structure. Contact information Office: PHY 252 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 42212 Email:mike.hudson@uwaterloo.ca Website:https://uwaterloo.ca/scholar/mjhudson Expertise Gravitational lensing Cosmic flows Large scale structure Galaxy formation and evolution Research The image shows galaxies in the Hubble Deep Field, a very deep exposure of distant galaxies obtained by the Hubble Space Telescope. The overlay in the lower left hand corner represents the distortion of background images due to gravitational lensing expected from the dark matter "haloes" of the foreground galaxies, indicated by red ellipses. The blue polarization "sticks" indicate the distortion.Dr. Hudsoniscurrently working on theCFHTLenS Survey. Cosmic Flowsare deviations from the uniform Hubble expansion of the Universe. They are the only probe of the large-scale distribution of dark matter in the nearby Universe. Hudsoniscurrently working on two major observational projects SMAC (Streaming Motions of Abell Clusters) is a study of 56 Abell clusters, mostly within 120 Mpc/h. NFPSis a new peculiar velocity survey of 100 X-ray luminous clusters within 200 Mpc/h. Galaxies are the building blocks of the Universe ... why? How do they form, and how do they evolve? Why are there fundamentally two different types of galaxy: elliptical "bulges" and spiral discs? Hudson's primary interest is focussed on galaxy bulges, the dominant component of elliptical and lenticular galaxies, that contain half ofthe stars in the Universe. His team's studies on spectra of these bulges has revealed that more massive bulges are older than less massive bulges. Projects: NOAO Fundamental Plane Survey AAOmega Survey of the Shapley Supercluster Hubble Space Telescope Survey of Coma Teaching PHYS121, Mechanics PHYS239, Computational Physics 2 PHYS474, Galaxies PHYS475, Cosmology PHYS787, Cosmology SCI238, Introductory Astronomy Highlighted Publications Alex Conley, J Guy, M Sullivan, N Regnault, P Astier, C Balland, S Basa, RG Carlberg, D Fouchez, D Hardin, IM Hook, DA Howell, R Pain, N Palanque-Delabrouille, KM Perrett, CJ Pritchet, J Rich, V Ruhlmann-Kleider, D Balam, S Baumont, RS Ellis, S Fabbro, HK Fakhouri, N Fourmanoit, S Gonzlez-Gaitn, ML Graham, MJ Hudson, E Hsiao, T Kronborg, C Lidman, AM Mourao, JD Neill, S Perlmutter, P Ripoche, N Suzuki, ES Walker. "Supernova constraints and systematic uncertainties from the first three years of the supernova legacy survey". The Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 192 (1), 1 Liping Fu, E Semboloni, H Hoekstra, M Kilbinger, L Van Waerbeke, I Tereno, Y Mellier, C Heymans, J Coupon, K Benabed, J Benjamin, E Bertin, O Dor, MJ Hudson, O Ilbert, R Maoli, C Marmo, HJ McCracken, B Mnard. "Very weak lensing in the CFHTLS wide: cosmology from cosmic shear in the linear regime". Astronomy and Astrophysics 479 (1), 9-25 Mark Sullivan, J Guy, A Conley, N Regnault, P Astier, C Balland, S Basa, RG Carlberg, D Fouchez, D Hardin, IM Hook, DA Howell, R Pain, N Palanque-Delabrouille, KM Perrett, CJ Pritchet, J Rich, V Ruhlmann-Kleider, D Balam, S Baumont, RS Ellis, S Fabbro, HK Fakhouri, N Fourmanoit, S Gonzalez-Gaitan, ML Graham, MJ Hudson, E Hsiao, T Kronborg, C Lidman, AM Mourao, JD Neill, S Perlmutter, P Ripoche, N Suzuki, ES Walker. "SNLS3: constraints on dark energy combining the supernova legacy survey three-year data with other probes". The Astrophysical Journal 737 (2), 102 Please see Google Scholarfor a complete list of ProfessorHudson'spublications. Awards and Distinctions 2005: Outstanding Performance Award, University of Waterloo 2003: Premier's Research Excellence Award 2002: CITA Senior Fellowship University of Waterloo Affiliations Waterloo Centre for Astrophysics Affiliate, Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Research Professional Associations and Service 2006 - 2009: Member of Thirty Meter Telescope Scientific Advisory Committee Media The following news stories have featured ProfessorHudson's research: May 9, 2017:The mystery of dark matter ever so slightly illuminated (Radio Canada International) April 24, 2015:Astrophysicists create 3D master map of the universe April 27, 2015: Waterloo astrophysicists help map universe. Degrees 1993PhD Physics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom 1987BScPhysics, McGill University, Montral, Qubec, Canada Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
