Raffi Budakian | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Raffi Budakian Professor; University of Waterloo Endowed Chair in NanotechnologyProfessor Budakian's work in the past decade has focused on developing the experimental tools for ultra sensitive detection of electron and nuclear spins. He explores the application of these tools to address fundamental questions ranging from biology to quantum information. Contact information Office: RAC 1114 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext.31058 Email:rbudakian@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Coupling spins and nanomechanical oscillators Nanometer scale magnetic resonance imaging Exploring nanometer scale quantum phenomena in condensed matter systems Research Professor Budakian'sresearch focuses on developing highly sensitive tools, based on ultra-sensitive force detection, to study magnetism on the nanometer scale. These tools have been appliedto explore novel phenomena in condensed matter systems, such as the detection of half-quantum vortex states in unconventional superconductors, imaging emergent order in frustrated magnetic systems, and imaging vortex fluctuations in superconducting arrays. He and his research group are also developing new techniques that combine magnetic resonance and ultra-sensitive force detection to study the interaction of small ensembles of nuclear and electron spins, with applications ranging from quantum information processing to imaging the structure of proteins and virus particles. Current areas of research include design and fabrication of micro-machined silicon cantilevers for sub-attonewton force detection, development of spin detection/manipulation protocols that enable force detection at the thermal limit, imaging single dopants and defects in semiconductors, spin control via active feedback, and combining MRFM with electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) for high sensitivity nuclear spin detection. Teaching PHYS342, Electricity and Magnetism 2 Highlighted Publications J.M. Nichol, E.R. Hemesath, L.J. Lauhon, R. Budakian, Nanomechanical detection of nuclear magnetic resonance using a silicon nanowire oscillator. Phys. Rev. B., 054414-1-6 (2012). M. Kim, X.M. Chen, X. Wang, C.S. Nelson, R. Budakian, P. Abbamonte, S.L. Cooper, Pressure and field tuning the magnetostructural phases of Mn3O4: Raman scattering and x-ray diffraction studies. Phys. Rev. B., 174424-1-11 (2011). J. Jang, D.G. Ferguson, V. Vakaryuk, R. Budakian, S.B. Chung, P.M. Goldbart,and Y. Maeno, Observation of half-height magnetization steps in Sr2RuO4. Science 331, 186-188 (2011). R. Budakian, H. J. Mamin, B. W. Chui, and D. Rugar. Creating order from random fluctuations in small spin ensembles. Science 307, 408-411 (2005). R. Budakian, H. J. Mamin, and D. Rugar. Suppression of spin diffusion near a micron-size ferromagnet. Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 037205-1-4 (2004). Awards and Distinctions 2013,John Bardeen Faculty Scholar 2010,University of Illinois Center for Advanced Study Fellow 2005, World Technology Award, World Technology Network,presented for Single Spin Detection by Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy University of Waterloo Affiliations Faculty, Institute for Quantum Computing Faculty, Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology Associate Faculty, Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics Professional Associations and Service CIFAR, Senior fellow - Quantum Materials, and Quantum Information Science Media The following stories have featured Dr.Budakian's research: August 2015.Recorded from IQC's NanoMRI conference 2015:Nanowire-based magnetic resonance imaging. September 11, 2014: New Perimeter researcherprobes nature's building blocks in novel ways. Degrees 2000,PhD Physics, University of California, Los Angeles 1995,MS Physics, University of California, Los Angeles 1994,BS Physics, University of California, Los Angeles, summa cum laude Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
