Teacher profiles | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Teacher profiles Niayesh Afshordi Associate Professor Dr.Afshordi dabbles in Astrophysics, Cosmology, and Physics of gravity andisobsessed with observational hints that could help address problems in fundamental physics. Michael Balogh Professor Professor Balogh's research uses the worlds largest telescopes to study the physical properties of distant galaxies. Through spectroscopy we can learn about the distances, ages, chemical composition and star formation histories of these galaxies. Kostadinka Bizheva Professor; Graduate Officer Dr. Bizheva's research focuses on the development of novel optical imaging technology (Optical Coherence Tomography - OCT) that can be used in clinics to image various part of the human body for diagnostic purposes or for monitoring the outcome of drug therapy or surgery. Avery Broderick Associate Professor Dr. Broderick works to explain the fundamental physics of black holes and their observable characteristics.Black holes are sites where strong gravity dominates everything, from the dynamics of orbiting material to the shape of spacetime itself. As a result, they are the engines that power some of the brightest objects in the universe. Raffi Budakian Professor; University of Waterloo Endowed Chair in Nanotechnology Professor Budakian's work in the past decade has focused on developing the experimental tools for ultra sensitive detection of electron and nuclear spins. He explores the application of these tools to address fundamental questions ranging from biology to quantum information. Anton Burkov Professor Dr. Burkov is a theoretical condensed matter physicist, currently focusing on the effects of nontrivial electronic structure topology and electron-electron interactionson experimentally observable properties of quantum materials. Melanie Campbell Professor Dr. Campbellleads a highly multidisciplinary research group where theystudy ocular development, eye disease, and linear and non-linear optics of the eye. Theyinvestigate the fundamental refractive properties of the eye's components to improve diagnosis and therapy for various ocular conditions. Jeff Z.Y. Chen Professor; University Research Chair Soft matter is a cross disciplinary research field involving physics, chemistry, biology, and materials science. Dr. Chen uses basic tools such as statistical physics, field theory, neural networks, and computer simulations to study structural formation in polymers and liquid crystals. Kyung Soo Choi Assistant Professor Dr. Choi'sresearch focuses on the development and application of the most advanced techniques in cold atom physics and quantum optics to probe the fundamental nature of the quantum world and to investigate macroscopic quantum phenomena with strongly interacting atoms and photons near nanoscale structures. Michel Fich Professor Dr.Fich is an astronomer specializing in studies of star formation, the interstellar medium, and the structure of galaxies. His recent research activities have focused on small scale formation studies of low and intermediate mass stars, circumstellar disks, and the formation of proto-solar systems. James Forrest Professor Dr. Forrest'sresearch is focused on the behaviour of soft materials at the nanoscale. This includes self assembly of polymers, dynamics in thin films and near surface and interfaces. Hehas a long standing interest on the dynamics of glassy materials. Michel Gingras Professor and Canada Research Chair in Condensed Matter Physics & Statistical Mechanics ProfessorGingras main interests are in the field of theoretical condensed matter physics, with a focus on systems with random disorder. He is also interested in strongly correlated classical and quantum condensed matter systems subject to strongly competing, or frustrated, interactions. Bae-Yeun Ha Professor; Undergraduate Advisor - Life Physics In Professor Ha's research group, theyexplore a few theoretical problems in soft matter and biophysics, namely, chromosomes in living cells and lipid bilayer membranes. David Hawthorn Professor; Associate Chair, Graduate Studies The Quantum Materials Spectroscopy group, led by Dr. Hawthorn, studies Quantum Materials using resonant soft x-ray scattering and x-ray absorption spectroscopy at synchrotrons such as the Canadian Light Source. We use these tools to investigate intertwinned order in Quantum Materials and shed light on the long-standing mysteries of high temperature superconductors. Robert Hill Associate Professor; Teaching Fellow Dr. Hill's research is focused onthe experimental study of materials whose exotic properties are dominated by the collective quantum mechanical nature of their electrons and defy explanation using current theoretical paradigms. Michael Hudson Professor Broadly speaking, ProfessorHudson's research is in observational and theoretical cosmology, particularlyGalaxy Formation, and measuring the properties of dark matter and dark energy throughGravitational Lensing,Cosmic FlowsandLarge-scale Structure. Stefan Idziak Associate Professor; Associate Dean of Science, Computing and Co-operative Education; Undergraduate Advisor Stefan Idziak studies complex fluids using X-ray diffraction. Contact information Office: PHY 250 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 35580 Email:idziak@uwaterloo.ca Thomas Jennewein Associate Professor Dr. Jennewein's main research passion is how to achieve quantum communications and a Quantum Internet on a global scale. In particular heiscurrently pursuing the use of satellites to accomplish intercontinental distances, and is possible with todays technology. Jan Kycia Professor Dr. Kycia's group works on the experimental investigation of superconducting and quantum mechanical devices; in particular Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) and GaAs quantum dots (Spin Qubits).The experiments are runat ultra low temperatures (down to 0.004K). Zoya Leonenko Professor Dr.Leonenko leads a nanoscale biophysics research group which uses advanced scanning probe microscopy methods to study biophysics of lipids and lipid-protein interactions, interactions of nanoparticles with lipid membrane and monolayers, and to develop novel application of lipid films in biomedical nanotechnology and biosensing. Qing-Bin Lu Professor; University Research Chair; Undergraduate Advisor - Chemical Physics Professor Lus research programs cross disciplines in physics, chemistry, environment, climate, biology and medicine, particularly focusing on femtomedicine and cancer therapy, as well as the sciences of atmospheric ozone depletion (the ozone hole) and global climate change (global warming). Adrian Lupascu Associate Professor; Associate Chair Dr. Lupascuis an experimental physicist interested in the quantum dynamics of various types of physical systems and the application of quantum effects to build new types of detectors and quantum information processors. HisSuperconducting Quantum Device labfocuses on experimental research with superconducting devices, ranging from quantum bits for quantum information experiments, to superconducting resonators for loss characterization, among other projects. Norbert Ltkenhaus Professor Professor Ltkenhaus' research group explores the interface between quantum communication theory and quantum optical implementations. Theytranslate between abstract protocols (described by qubits) and physical implementations (described for example by laser pulses); theybenchmark implementations to properly characterize quantum advantage andexploit quantum mechanical structures for use in quantum communication. Robert Mann Professor Professor Mann workson gravitation, quantum physics, and the overlap between these two subjects. Heisinterested in questions that provide us with information about the foundations of physics, particularly those that could be tested by experiment. Matteo Mariantoni Associate Professor Dr. Mariantonihasa strong background in cutting-edge research on superconducting qubits and circuit quantum electrodynamics. He specializes inthe experimental realization of low-level microwave detection schemes and pulsing techniques that allow for the measurement of ultra-low quantum signals generated by superconducting qubits coupled to on-chip resonators. Pages1 2 next last Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
