Thomas Jennewein | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Thomas Jennewein Associate ProfessorDr. Jennewein's main research passion is how to achieve quantum communications and a Quantum Internet on a global scale. In particular heiscurrently pursuing the use of satellites to accomplish intercontinental distances, and is possible with todays technology. His field of researchcombines information processing technologies with the laws of quantum physics and is at the forefront of research today, giving rise to powerful new information tools such as quantum computing and quantum cryptography. Contact information Office: RAC 2111 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 37485 Email:tjennewe@iqc.ca Website:http://research.iqc.uwaterloo.ca/qpl/ Expertise Quantum communication and quantum computation experiments using entangled photons Quantum teleportation Orbital angular momentum of photons Long distance quantum communication via optical fibers, free space, and satellite based links Foundations of physics and quantum information, entanglement in large and complex systems Research Dr.Jennewein is actively driving a very strong program with the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), supported by a team of academic and industrial partners, of which he isthe principal investigator. The mission proposal he has established is called QEYSSat (Quantum Encryption and Science Satellite). Several projects and studies were funded by the CSA since 2010. One of the ongoing studies includes the development of the satellite payload systems. Jennewein's team, together with 5 industry partners designed the systems, built prototypes and tested them in our UW labs. Most notably, they undertook a test campaign at TRIUMF in Vancouver to expose our photon detector devices to Proton radiation equivalent to the space environment, which yielded very promising results. Furthermore, Dr.Jenneweinwas recently awarded a FAST grant from CSA to study quantum communication experiments with airborne platforms, with their support for a stratospheric balloon or an aircraft and will help themadvance the readiness of the satellite payload. The research in theQuantum Photonics Laboratorycenters on the applications of quantum photonics and quantum optics, as well as the fundamental aspects of the quantum world.They are involved in the experimental design and demonstrations ofquantum photonics devices suitable for communication and computing with photons, and the development of ultra-long distance quantum communication systems using terrestrial and satellite-based systems. They are developing photonic quantum entanglement sources for various quantum protocols, and have pioneered the direct generation of three photon entangled states from cascaded parametric down conversion. Teaching PHYS115, Mechanics Highlighted Publications Bourjoin, J.-P., Meyer-Scott, E., Higgins, B.L., Helou, B., Erven, C., Hbel, H., Kumar, B., Hudson, D., D'Souza, I., Girard, R., Laflamme, R., Jennewein, T. A comprehensive design and performance analysis of low Earth orbit satellite quantum communication. New Journal of Physics (2013) 15, pp. 023006(1)-023006(35). Erven, C., Meyer-Scott, E., Fisher, K., Lavoie, J., Higgins, B.L., Yan, Z., Pugh, C.J., Bourgoin, J.-P., Prevedel, R., Shalm, L.K., Richards, L., Gigov, N., Laflamme, R., Weihs, G., Jennewein, T., Resch, K.J. Experimental three-photon quantum nonlocality under strict locality conditions. Nature Photonics (2014) 8, pp. 292-296. Hbel, H., Hamel, D.R., Fedrizzi, A., Ramelow, S., Resch, K.J., Jennewein, T. Direct generation of photon triplets using cascaded photon-pair sources. Nature PhysicsLetters (2010) 466, pp. 601-603. Shalm, L.K., Hamel, D.R., Yan, Z., Simon, C., Resch, K.J., Jennewein, T. Three-photon energy-time entanglement. Nature Physics Letters (2013) 9, pp. 19-22. Please seeGoogle Scholarfor a complete list of Professor Jennewein's publications. Awards and Distinctions 2007, International ARC Research Fellowship, Australian Research Council 2002,Loschmidt prize of the Austrian Physical-Chemical Society for the PhD Thesis University of Waterloo Affiliations Faculty, Institute for Quantum Computing Affiliated member, Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics Media The following news stories have featured Dr.Jennewein's research: Nanotechnology Now -Waterloo invention advances quantum computing research: New device, which will be used in labs around the world to develop quantum technologies, produces fragile entangled photons in a more efficient way.February 16th, 2015 CBC What Is Quantum Computing and Why Should You Care? January 23rd, 2015 SPIE Progress Toward A Quantum Communication Satellite May 1st, 2014 The Economist The Solace of Quantum May 25th, 2013 The Record Imagining a Quantum Future May 3rd, 2013 Motherboard How a Quantum Satellite Network Could Produce a Secure Internet March 26th, 2013 Scientific American Quantum Teleportation in Space Explored as Message Encryption Solution March 15th, 2013 IoP Physics World Space Race Under Way to Create Quantum Satellite March 1st, 2013 Wired The Race to Bring Quantum Teleportation to Your World October 3rd, 2012 Yahoo Canada News Canadian Scientists Help Break Quantum Teleportation Distance Record September 13th, 2012 Metro News Waterloo Researchers Key To Teleportation Breakthrough September 7th, 2012 Max Planck Institute of Quantum Optics World Record: Quantum Teleportation Over 143 Kilometers September 6th, 2012 Science Daily Quantum Teleportation Goes The Distance: Record-breaking Distance of 143 Kilometers Through Free Space September 5th, 2012 The Economist Entanglement Takes Off February 24th, 2012 Degrees 2002 PhD Physics, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria 1997MScPhysics, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria 1994BScPhysics, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
