Kyung Soo Choi | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Kyung Soo Choi Assistant ProfessorDr. Choi'sresearch focuses on the development and application of the most advanced techniques in cold atom physics and quantum optics to probe the fundamental nature of the quantum world and to investigate macroscopic quantum phenomena with strongly interacting atoms and photons near nanoscale structures. Recent developments on such systems have opened the door to an emerging field at the interface between atomic physics, condensed matter physics, and quantum information science. This new frontier utilizes genuine quantum dynamics at the level of single quanta to manipulate and examine highly entangled states of light and matter, and to build a foundation for designing new quantum optical materials at ultracold temperature. Contact information Office: QNC 4313 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 39320 Email: kyung.choi@uwaterloo.ca Website:Choi Laboratoryfor Ultracold Quantum Matter & Light Expertise Emergence of non-equilibrium quantum phases from driven dipolar quantum matter (experimental) Extreme quantum nonlinear optics with Rydberg polaritons (experimental) Strongly coupled light and matter with photonic crystals (experimental) Casimir-Polder forces for cold atoms near nanophotonic structures (theory) Critical scaling behavior of entanglement for quantum many-body systems (theory) Research Dr. Choi's research focuses on building exotic quantum systems with strongly interacting atoms and light in the vicinity of nanoscopic structures and with ultracold Rydberg atoms. By applying advanced techniques in cold atom physics and quantum optics, he plans to utilize quantum dynamics at the level of single quanta to manipulate and examine highly entangled states of light and matter, and to build a foundation for new quantum optical materials at ultracold temperature quanta-by-quanta. >> See project-specific descriptions of Dr. Choi's research Teaching PHYS256, Geometrical and Physical Optics Highlighted Publications A. Goban, C.-L. Hung, S.-P. Yu, J.D. Hood, J. A. Muniz, J.H. Lee, M.J. Martin, A.C. McClung, K.S. Choi, D.E. Chang, O. Painter, H.J. Kimble. Atom-Light Interactions in Photonic Crystals Nature Communications 5, 3808 (2014). K.S. Choi, A. Goban, S.B. Papp, S.J. van Enk, H.J. Kimble. Entanglement of spin waves among four quantum memories Nature 468, 412-416 (2010). S.B. Papp*, K.S. Choi*, H. Deng, P. Lougovski, S.J. vank Enk, H.J. Kimble. Characterization of multipartite entanglement for one photon shared among four optical modes Science 324, 764 (2009). K.S. Choi, H. Deng, J. Laurat, H.J. Kimble. Mapping photonic entanglement into and out of a quantum memory Nature 452, 67 (2008). C.-W. Chou, J. Laurat, H. Deng, K.S. Choi, H. de Riedmatten, D. Felinto, H.J. Kimble. Functional quantum nodes for entanglement distribution over scalablequantum network Science 316, 1316 (2007). Please see Google scholar for a complete list of Professor Choi'spublications. Awards and Distinctions 2015-present, Early Researcher Award, Government of Ontario 2014-present, Hanrim Frontier Scientist, Korean Academy of Science and Technology 2012-present, Presidential Early Career Award for Scientist and Engineers (PECASE), Republic of Korea 2012-present, National Research Foundation, Republic of Korea 2012-2014, KIST Institutional Programs, Korea Institute of Science and Technology University of Waterloo Affiliations Faculty member, Institute for Quantum Computing Professional Associations and Service 2015-2016 Scientific Reports (Nature Publishing Group), Editorial Board Degrees 2011 PhD Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California, U.S.A. 2006BScPhysics, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York, U.S.A. Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
