Jan Kycia | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Jan Kycia ProfessorDr. Kycia's group works on the experimental investigation of superconducting and quantum mechanical devices; in particular Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) and GaAs quantum dots (Spin Qubits).The experiments are runat ultra low temperatures (down to 0.004K). With theselow temperatures, the quantum aspects of devices can be isolated and sensors can have the lowest levels ofnoise. Thesedevices are used for quantum computingapplicationsas well asfor studying novel magnetic and superconducting materials. Contact information Office:PHY 373 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 45177 Email:jkycia@uwaterloo.ca Website:science.uwaterloo.ca/~jkycia/ Expertise Josephson junction-based sensors and devices (SQUIDS, Qubits) Semiconductor-based single spin-charge devices Cryogenic electronics and techniques Research Characterization of quantum devices as building blocks to Qubits and state of the art sensors In order to make high performance qubits and sensors, the superconductor-based Josephson junctions and semiconductor-based quantum dot devices need to be optimized. My group works with other groups such as NRC:Ottawa and D-wave Inc. to develop improved devices. My group works on cryogenic electronic measurements. More specifically: D-wave-Waterloo collaboration on developing improved superconducting devices My group is responsible for characterizing the low frequency noise (1/f noise) and the sub gap leakage currents in Josephson junctions produced be the quantum computer manufacturer, D-wave Inc. . We are in the feedback loop for developing improved devices that are needed to produce higher performance quantum computers. This work involves cooling samples to typically 10-100 mK temperature and characterising the device performance. These characteristics are then correlated to manufacturing and processing parameters. 1/f noise can occur from single atom defects moving within the quantum tunnel junction. Sub-gap leakage can be caused by tiny pinholes in the insulating tunnel barriers. A third characterization we are working on with D-wave is the rf characterization of dielectric losses at cryogenic temperatures. Often high-quality factor, Q, resonators are desired for sensors and qubits. Defects in the dielectrics can absorb energy (similar to water in a microwave oven). We work on identifying and reducing these unwanted loss mechanisms in the devices. The better the junctions and devices get, the more challenging it becomes to detect the noise mechanisms. The field is pushing to work at lower and lower temperatures to reduce noise and decoherence mechanisms also working on larger scale circuits. We are working on new characterization configurations that are suited for lower temperatures and provide higher throughput. NRC:Ottawa-Waterloo collaboration on developing improved single-charge, single-spin devices My group is working on semiconductor-based qubits and sensors. These typically isolate a single (or a few) electron(s) or hole(s) in a nanoscale electronic device. With nano-scaled gates, we can set potential wells to localize these charges. These devices can be used to make extremely sensitive electric field sensors, they can also create qubits. One push is to improve the coherence time by identifying and minimizing decoherence sources. One such source is the interaction of the charge/spin with the nuclei in the substrate. New substrates are being developed to avoid this interaction. My group is working with a group at NRC:Ottawa (Sergei Studenikin) as well as local researchers at Waterloo (Jonathan Baugh, Zbig Wasilewski, and Francois Sfigakis) to develop improved devices. My groups specialty in this collaboration is in the cryogenic rf-electronics measurements. We are characterizing the devices made with new materials and developing higher-sensitivity, higher-speed readout measurements. With higher speeds and higher sensitivity, we can reveal new physics at play in the devices. One goal is to reach the quantum noise limit and study quantum noise effects. With an improved readout, the performance of the qubits is improved. Teaching MNS 101, Materials and Nanosciences in the Modern World PHYS 112, Physics 2 PHYS352, Analogue Electronics PHYS353, Digital Electronics PHYS 358,Thermal Physics PHYS 359,Statistical Mechanics Highlighted Publications H. M. Revell, L. R. Yaraskavitch, J. D. Mason, K. A. Ross, H. M. L. Noad, H. A. Dabkowska, B. D. Gaulin, P. Henelius & J. B. Kycia Evidence of impurity and boundary effects on magnetic monopole dynamics in spin ice Nature Physics85,doi:10.1038/nphys2466(2012) D. Pomaranski, and J. B. Kycia Low Temperature Specific Heat Measurements of Frustrated Magnetic Materials Physics in Canada 68, No. 2: 99-102 (2012) L. R. Yaraskavitch, H. M. Revell, S. Meng, K. A. Ross, H. M. L. Noad, H. A. Dabkowska, B. D. Gaulin, and J. B. Kycia Spin dynamics in the frozen state of the dipolar spin ice material Dy2Ti2O7 Phys. Rev. B 85, Issue 18, 020410(R) (2012) J. A. Quilliam, S. Meng, C. G. A. Mugford, and J. B. Kycia Evidence of Spin Glass Dynamics in Dilute LiHoxY1-xF4 Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, Issue 18, 187204 (2008) Please see Google Scholarfor a complete list of Dr. Kycia'spublications. Awards and Distinctions 2007,Ontario Early Research Award forapplied superconducting devices 2001, Research Innovation Award for novelTransition Edge Sensor (TES) detector, the Research Corporation University of Waterloo Affiliations Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology Associate, Institute for Quantum Computing Degrees 1997: PhD, Physics, Northwestern University 1991:MSc, Physics University of Pennsylvania 1989:BSc, Physics, McGill University Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
