Bae-Yeun Ha | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Bae-Yeun Ha Professor; Undergraduate Advisor - Life PhysicsIn Professor Ha's research group, theyexplore a few theoretical problems in soft matter and biophysics, namely, chromosomes in living cells and lipid bilayer membranes. Contact information Office: PHY 372 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 47004 Email:byha@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Theoretical molecular biophysics & soft matter Polymer physics for chromosome organization in a cell Confined polymers: chain topology, spatial organization, & dynamics Electrostatics in soft matter and biomolecules Electrostatic modification of lipid membranes Physical basis for cell selectivity of antimicrobial peptides Research Chromosomes in living cells are strongly confined but show a high level of spatial organization. Recent experiments suggest that bacterial chromosomes behave as confined polymers and undergo abrupt compaction in a crowed medium. We have been exploring as model chromosomes confined polymers possibly with non-linear topology or cross-linking, and their compaction by crowding particles. For instance, we have shown how cylindrical confinement reshapes individual polymer chains and enhances their segregation, in the way seen in rod-shaped bacteria. Lipid bilayer membranes, enclosing living cells, primarily serve as permeability barriers. As self-assembled structures, however, their permeability and stability can be altered by surrounding ions or molecules (e.g., Mg2+ and antimicrobial peptides). Along this line, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which carries multiple negative charges, is the key surface component of Gram-negative bacteria, constituting the outer layer of their outer membrane or simply the LPS layer. If Mg2+ stabilizes the (negatively-charged) LPS layer, cationic antimicrobial peptides permeabilize it. Inspired by this long-standing observation, we have been interested in presenting a physical picture of how the LPS layer can be electrostatically modified. Teaching PHYS225, Modeling Life Physics PHYS364, Mathematical Physics 1 PHYS365, Mathematical Physics 2 PHYS380, Molecular and Cellular Biophysics PHYS434, Quantum Physics 3 Highlighted Publications Bae-Yeun HaandYoungkyun Jung. "Polymers under confinement: single polymers, how they interact, and as model chromosomes".Soft Matter, 2015, 11, 2333-2352 Juin Kim,Chanil Jeon,Hawoong Jeong,Youngkyun JungandBae-Yeun Ha. "A polymer in a crowded and confined space: effects of crowder size and poly-dispersity".Soft Matter, 2015, 11, 1877-1888 Chanil Jeon,Juin Kim,Hawoong Jeong,Youngkyun Jung andBae-Yeun Ha. "Chromosome-like organization of an asymmetrical ring polymer confined in a cylindrical space".Soft Matter, 2015, 11, 8179-8193 Azadeh Bagheri, Sattar Taheri-Araghi, and Bae-Yeun Ha. "How Cell Concentrations Are Implicated in Cell Selectivity of Antimicrobial Peptides".Langmuir, 2015, 31 (29), pp 80528062. Please see Pubfacts for a complete list of Dr. Ha'spublications. University of Waterloo Affiliations Centre for Bioengineering and Biotechnology Degrees 1996 PhD Physics, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, U.S.A. 1986MSPhysics, Korea University, Seoul, Korea 1985BSPhysics, Korea University, Seoul, Korea Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
