Quantum Information & Computing profiles | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students Undergraduate Award Winners ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News EventsPHYS 10 Seminars Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo COVID-19 Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Undergraduate Award Winners Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profilesResearcher Quantum Information & Computing profiles Raffi Budakian Professor; University of Waterloo Endowed Chair in Nanotechnology Professor Budakian's work in the past decade has focused on developing the experimental tools for ultra sensitive detection of electron and nuclear spins. He explores the application of these tools to address fundamental questions ranging from biology to quantum information. Kyung Soo Choi Assistant Professor Dr. Choi'sresearch focuses on the development and application of the most advanced techniques in cold atom physics and quantum optics to probe the fundamental nature of the quantum world and to investigate macroscopic quantum phenomena with strongly interacting atoms and photons near nanoscale structures. K. Rajibul Islam Assistant Professor Dr. Rajibul Islam's research interests are in quantum information processing, in particular quantum simulation and computation. His research team is building a quantum simulator with laser-cooled trapped ions to simulate models of interacting quantum many-particle systems. Dr. Islam is also involved in building 'QuantumIon', a multi-user, open-access trapped-ion quantum computer at Waterloo. Alan Jamison Assistant Professor Dr. Jamison's group uses lasers to cool atoms to within a few billionths of a degree of absolute zero, making the coldest systems in the known universe. At these temperatures, atoms can be made to mimic interesting quantum systems from condensed matter, nuclear, and high-energy particle physics. Thomas Jennewein Associate Professor Dr. Jennewein's main research passion is how to achieve quantum communications and a Quantum Internet on a global scale. In particular heiscurrently pursuing the use of satellites to accomplish intercontinental distances, and is possible with todays technology. Jan Kycia Professor Dr. Kycia's group works on the experimental investigation of superconducting and quantum mechanical devices; in particular Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) and GaAs quantum dots (Spin Qubits).The experiments are runat ultra low temperatures (down to 0.004K). Raymond Laflamme Professor; Canada Research Chair in Quantum Computing Would using quantum mechanics for information processing be an impediment or could it be an advantage? This is the fundamental question in the field of quantum information processing (QIP). QIP is a young field with an incredible potential impact reaching from the way we understand fundamental physics to technological applications. Adrian Lupascu Associate Professor; Associate Chair Dr. Lupascuis an experimental physicist interested in the quantum dynamics of various types of physical systems and the application of quantum effects to build new types of detectors and quantum information processors. HisSuperconducting Quantum Device labfocuses on experimental research with superconducting devices, ranging from quantum bits for quantum information experiments, to superconducting resonators for loss characterization, among other projects. Norbert Ltkenhaus Professor Professor Ltkenhaus' research group explores the interface between quantum communication theory and quantum optical implementations. Theytranslate between abstract protocols (described by qubits) and physical implementations (described for example by laser pulses); theybenchmark implementations to properly characterize quantum advantage andexploit quantum mechanical structures for use in quantum communication. Robert Mann Professor Professor Mann workson gravitation, quantum physics, and the overlap between these two subjects. Heisinterested in questions that provide us with information about the foundations of physics, particularly those that could be tested by experiment. Matteo Mariantoni Associate Professor Dr. Mariantonihasa strong background in cutting-edge research on superconducting qubits and circuit quantum electrodynamics. He specializes inthe experimental realization of low-level microwave detection schemes and pulsing techniques that allow for the measurement of ultra-low quantum signals generated by superconducting qubits coupled to on-chip resonators. Roger Melko Professor; Canada Research Chair in Computational Many-Body Physics Dr. Melko's research interests involve strongly-correlated many-body systems, with a focus on emergent phenomena, ground state phases, phase transitions, quantum criticality, and entanglement. Heemphasizes computational methods as a theoretical technique, in particular the development of state-of-the-art algorithms for the study of strongly-interacting systems. Christine Muschik Assistant Professor Dr. Muschikis an expert in the theory of quantum communication and quantum simulation. Quantum communication exploits the features of quantum mechanical systems for advantages in communication tasks, such as unbreakable security or significant reductions in the resources required to send a message. Dmitry Pushin Associate Professor Dmitry Pushinuses his broad background to apply quantum information processing methods to improve neutron interferometry, with the goal of making it accessible to the general scientific community as a resource for studying fundamental questions of physics, dark energy, phase transitions in condensed matter, magnetic materials in functional devices and materials science. Kevin Resch Professor; Canada Research Chair in Optical Quantum Technologies Dr.Reschuses experimental quantum physics to understand photon entanglement and quantum information science. His work focuses on generating new quantum states of light with applications ranging from quantum computing to future medical imaging. Pooya Ronagh Research Assistant Professor Dr. Ronaghs research interests involve algorithmic aspects of quantum computation. He explores novel applications of quantum computation by designing and analysing quantum algorithms for solving computational challenges wherein the classical state of the art is costly machine learning and high-performance computing. Crystal Senko Assistant Professor and Canada Research Chair in Trapped Ion Quantum Computing Dr. Senkos research focuses on using trapped ions for quantum simulations and quantum computing applications. Her work also explores qudits and how to improve the efficiency of encoding a logical unit of information using the multiple levels of a qudit. Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (13)Quantum Information & Computing (17)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright News Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land granted to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
