Mariajose Castellanos Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering - UMBC Skip to main content Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering Menu Search Search Context This Site All of UMBC College of Engineering and Information Technology Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering Undergraduate Prospective Undergrads Student Ambassadors Testimonials B.S. in Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Program Policies Accelerated Program (BSMS) Undergraduate FAQ Student Orgs & myUMBC Graduate Program Overview Application Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Resources Research Faculty Research Research Talks: GRIT-X Research Talks: TEDx News & Events News Events Calendar People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Alumni About Us Contact Us Mission, Overview & History Ordering & Work Requests Internal CBEE Dashboard Advisory Board Department Logo Mariajose Castellanos Title Principal Lecturer Undergraduate Program Director Contact Information Engineering, Room 319 mariaca@umbc.edu 410-455-8151 Education Ph.D. Chemical Engineering Cornell University, 2005 B.S. Chemical Engineering Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM), 1999 Research Areas The rate of accumulation of biological information is increasing exponentially. This information is driven by new technologies and powerful data acquisition methods. These changes have revolutionized the nature of biology, allowing a greater intersection with engineering concepts and computation. Most of the new data is widely available, but the content is disconnected and primarily based on static and equilibrium measurements. In contrast, actual biological behavior is the product of integrative and dynamic interactions between system components. This behavior can be better understood with the development of structurally, biochemically, and physiologically detailed computational models based on experimental data. Models allow simulation of intracellular processes and the connection to the extracellular environment to predict system responses to variety of intrinsic perturbations (e.g. changes in cellular regulatory machinery) as well as environmental fluctuations (e.g. in nutrient levels). At the same time, models increase our understanding of the basic principles of systems functions and provide insight into the regulatory mechanisms controlling a biological system. Additionally, models can help in the design of future experiments and produce testable questions about the object of study. Our group will build models that allow sensible interrogation of the biological system, and design experiments to accompany the models to provide basic observations for model building and for validation of model predictions. The focus of the models are: Holistic pathogenesis and Molecular systems biology. Selected Publications S. Browning, M.Castellanos, M.L. Shuler, Robust control of initiation of prokaryotic chromosome replication: Essential considerations for a minimal cell, Biotechnology and Bioengineering, 2004, Dec 5, 88, (5), 575-584. M.Castellanos, D. Wilson, M.L.Shuler, A Modular Minimal Cell: Pyrimidine and Purine Transport and Metabolism, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2004, April 27; 101(17), 6681-6686. Location Engineering Building 3rd Floor, Room 314 Contact Phone: 410-455-3400Contact Us Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering on myUMBCChemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering on TwitterChemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering on InstagramChemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering on LinkedIn UMBC University of Maryland, Baltimore County 1000 Hilltop Circle, Baltimore, MD 21250 Directions & Parking Information Resources Alumni Career Center Events Get Help News Visit Campus Work at UMBC Important Contacts Online Directory Contact UMBC Request Support Emergency Info UMBC Police: 410-455-5555 Sign Up for Text Alerts Contact Us Request Info Apply Top Stories of the Week Enter email to subscribe Go UMBC: A University of Maryland Member Institution Accreditation Equal Opportunity PrivacyPDF Download Title IX Web Accessibility Subscribe to UMBC Weekly Top Stories First Name Last Name Email I am interested in: I am interested in: Undergraduate I am interested in: Graduate I am interested in: Professional Masters
