Biology Department: Edgar Lehr Illinois Wesleyan University Illinois Wesleyan Academics About Admissions Giving Student Life Alumni Athletics News & Events Outcomes Search x x Academics Admissions Student Life Athletics Outcomes Biology Request Info Apply Now Schedule a Visit Edgar Lehr, Ph.D. Professor of Biology Education 1996 Masters degree (Dipl. Biol.) in biology, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany 2001 Doctoral degree (Dr. phil. nat.) in zoology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, Germany 2005 - 2006 Feodor Lynen Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Natural History Museum, University of Kansas 2009 Habilitation degree (Dr. habil.), University of Koblenz-Landau, Germany Research Dr. Lehr's research is devoted to the biodiversity of amphibians and reptiles in the neotropics (Peru). Current research projects focus on species composition and phylogenetic relationships of terrestrial-breeding frogs (Strabomantidae) and spectacled lizards (Gymnophthalmidae) in cloud forests and high Andean habitats and the herpetofauna of the Pui Pui Protected Forest in Peru. His research includes taxonomy, morphology, comparative anatomy, systematic revisions, phylogenetic analyses, biogeography, ecology, and conservation. Dr. Lehr is a Research Affiliate of the Natural History Museum, University of Kansas, Research Associate of The Field Museum (Chicago), and the Museo de Historia Natural Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos (Lima, Peru). He is associate editor of the Journal of Herpetology (SSAR, USA) and Salamandra (DGHT, Germany). See a list of Dr. Lehr's publications. Teaching Dr. Lehr teaches Human Biology: Anatomy and Physiology labs (BIOL 107/108) Foundations of Evolution (BIOL 216) Chordate Comparative Anatomy (BIOL 310) Evolution (BIOL 316) Herpetology (BIOL 322) Biodiversity (BIOL 333) Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Biology News .... More News & Events Apply Now Request Info Visit Our Campus Useful Links Admissions Academics Directory The Ames Library Campus Map Bookstore MyIWU Contact Us 1312 Park Street Bloomington, IL 61701 United States Phone: (309) 556-1000 Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Our Commitment Privacy Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Statement of Accreditation Disclaimer of Content 2020 Illinois Wesleyan University. All Rights Reserved All images and content
