Loni Walker Illinois Wesleyan University Illinois Wesleyan Academics About Admissions Giving Student Life Alumni Athletics News & Events Outcomes Search x x Academics Admissions Student Life Athletics Outcomes Biology Request Info Apply Now Schedule a Visit Loni Walker, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Biology Education 1987 Bachelor in Science, Western Oregon State College (now Western Oregon University) 1989 Masters of Science in Plant Biology, The Ohio State University 1994 Ph.D in Plant Science, The Ohio State University 1994 - 1999 National Science Foundation Post Doctoral Fellow in Plant Science, Indiana University Research Dr. Walker is a Plant Biologist with a research interest in understanding growth and developmental processes in plants. Previously, she utilized a variety of physiological, molecular, genetic, and cellular techniques in her approach to understanding the molecular mechanisms of auxin action in Arabidopsis thaliana. Some of these techniques included mutagenesis, mutant isolation, mutant analysis, and molecular cloning techniques. During graduate school, and since arriving at IWU, Dr. Walker's primary research interest has been to understand how environmental factors such as light and gravity influence growth and development in the moss Ceratodon purpureus. Dr. Walker has supervised IWU students in studying the effects of light, gravity, and plant growth regulators on growth and development of protonemata in C. purpureus. Teaching Dr. Walker teaches General Biology (BIOL101) Plant Anatomy and Physiology (BIOL 315) Topics in Cell Biology (BIOL 330) Cell Biology (BIOL 340) Topics in Plant Biology (BIOL 375) Biology News .... More News & Events Apply Now Request Info Visit Our Campus Useful Links Admissions Academics Directory The Ames Library Campus Map Bookstore MyIWU Contact Us 1312 Park Street Bloomington, IL 61701 United States Phone: (309) 556-1000 Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Our Commitment Privacy Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Statement of Accreditation Disclaimer of Content 2020 Illinois Wesleyan University. All Rights Reserved All images and content
