Paul P. Mathisen | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Paul P. Mathisen Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Associate Professor and Dir. of Sustainability Affiliated Department or Office:Environmental EngineeringEnvironmental & Sustainability StudiesCivil & Environmental Engineering Education:BS University of Massachusetts at AmherstMS Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyPhD Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor Mathisen's teaching and research concentrate in the areas of water resources and environmental engineering. He enjoys challenging himself to learn new ideas and concepts, which he can then apply to solve problems that can make a difference for other people. WPI's curriculum and projects program provide the perfect environment for fostering these opportunities. Professor Mathisen especially enjoys advising projects and working with students, since these activities always provide excellent opportunities to learn, solve problems, and make a difference. Some of the key challenges in water resources and environmental engineering include providing sufficient clean drinking water, protecting water quality and ecosystem health, and developing plans to address some of the long-term effects of development and climate change. By combining hands-on work in the laboratory and field with modeling techniques, and working in collaboration with a number of colleagues and a variety of organizations, Professor Mathisens teaching and research programs are addressing these challenges. Email mathisen@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 209E Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x5343 WPI Sustainability PageMassachusetts Water Resources Outreach Center (WROC)Personal Website 3 Research Lab Living and Learning Lab Research Interests Research Interests:SustainabilityWater ResourcesEnvironmental EngineeringStormwater ManagementContaminant Transport in GroundwaterEnvironmental Fluid Dynamics Scholarly Work Considerations Regarding Geochemical Transformations Downstream of Subsurface Wastewater Effluent Disposal Facilities - 2010 Mathisen, P., D. Pellegrino, and H. Wen. Considerations Regarding Nutrient Pathways and Loads into Surface-Water Resulting From Subsurface Discharges of Wastewater Effluent, Proceedings of the 2007 World Environmental and Water Resources Conference, May 15-19, 2007, Tampa, Florida. Mathisen, P. Introducing Field Experiences into the Undergraduate Curriculum, Proceedings of the 2007 World Environmental and Water Resources Conference, May 1519, 2007, Tampa, Florida. Ozdilek, H., P. Mathisen, and D. Pellegrino. Fingerprinting Long-Term Heavy Metal Transport and Sediment Contamination Using Bioassay Samples Surrounding a Freshwater Riverine Ecosystem: The Blackstone River, USA, Journal of Environmental Biology, Volume 27, Nos. 3-4, March/April 2007. Roberge, J. and P. Mathisen. Sensitivity Analyses to Assess the Use of CFD for Predicting the Occurrence of Swirl in Pump Intakes, Proceedings of the Symposium on Industrial Application of Swirling Flows, 1999 ASME/JSME Conference on Fluids Engineering, July 1999, San Francisco, CA. Kirshen, P., Caputo, L., Vogel, R., Mathisen, P., Rosner, A., and Renaud, T. Adapting Urban Infrastructure to Climate Change: A Drainage Case Study. J. Water Resour. Plann. Management., 10.1061/(ASCE)WR.1943-5452.0000443, 04014064, 2014 - 2014 News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT PAUL P. MATHISEN Sustainability Plan Lays Out the Groundwork for a More Sustainable Campus and Global Community April 22, 2021 WPI Receives Another Gold Star for Sustainability March 11, 2021 Carlos Nobre Noted Climate Scientist to Speak on Plight of Amazon November 30, 2020 WPI Adds Electric Vehicle Charging Stations to Meet Increasing Needs of EV Drivers March 09, 2020 Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE Worcester Magazine Facing the future: Worcesters green plan to prepare for climate change Paul Mathisen, director of sustainability, spoke withWorcester Magazineabout the Green Worcester Plan. The goal of the plan is to make the city more energy sustainable and climate resilient. A sustainable society really needs to be resilient, in that it can make an efficient recovery from the impact of various weather events, Mathisen told the magazine. THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
