Nima Rahbar | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Nima Rahbar Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Associate Professor Affiliated Department or Office:Mechanical Engineering Education:BS Sharif University of Technology 1998MS Northeastern University 2003PhD Princeton University 2008 My research and teaching activities in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering are in the area of the mechanics of materials and structures. At WPI, my favorite aspect of teaching is working one on one with graduate and undergraduate students on research projects. I like to excite students curiosity towards discoveries and creative scientific advancements. In our research group, we focus on the fundamental principles that control the behavior of materials in engineering and biology at multiple scales. I am particularly interested in the bioinspired design of materials and structures. In this field, studying biological materials leads to the design of high-performance materials and structures. For example, we have created bioinspired dental ceramic crowns that lasts longer than the current dental crowns; we have also studied the fracture properties of bamboo as a sustainable structural material. We also have a few projects focusing on fracture and fatigue of materials and structures such as visco-elastic crack-bridging mechanisms in ceramics; We have also been involved with the repair of the Adam statue at the New York Metropolitan Museum by studying the mixed-mode fracture of marble/adhesive interfaces. I encourage you to visit my website for more details about my research group at WPI. Our latest work is focusedon introducing a new paradigm in self-healing concrete using enzymes. Email nrahbar@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 106 Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x6567 Bioinspired Materials Design Lab (BMDL) Research Interests Research Interests:Bioinspired Design of MaterialsContact Mechanics and AdhesionMechanics of Biological MaterialsNanomechanics and NanostructuresToughening Mechanisms at Mutlipe Scales Scholarly Work Nano-second UV laser processed micro-grooves on Ti6Al4V for biomedical applications AY Fasasi, S Mwenifumbo, N Rahbar, J Chen, M Li, AC Beye, CB Arnold, ... Materials Science and Engineering: C 29 (1), 5-13 Mechanical properties of functionally graded hierarchical bamboo structures T Tan, N Rahbar, SM Allameh, S Kwofie, D Dissmore, K Ghavami, ... Acta biomaterialia 7 (10), 3796-3803 Bioinspired design of dental multilayers M Huang, N Rahbar, R Wang, V Thompson, D Rekow, WO Soboyejo Materials Science and Engineering: A 464 (1), 315-320 A model for contaminant mass flux in capped sediment under consolidation AN Alshawabkeh, N Rahbar, T Sheahan Journal of contaminant hydrology 78 (3), 147-165 Strong fiber-reinforced hydrogel A Agrawal, N Rahbar, PD Calvert Acta biomaterialia 9 (2), 5313-5318 Bio-inspired design of dental multilayers: experiments and model X Niu, N Rahbar, S Farias, W Soboyejo Journal of the mechanical behavior of biomedical materials 2 (6), 596-602 View More Professional Highlights & Honors Professional Highlights &amp; Honors: Life Science Moment Award2009University of Massachusetts NSF Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER)2011 TMS Structural Materials Division Young Leader Professional Development Award2012 Air Force Summer Faculty Fellowship2013Wright-Patterson Air Force Laboratory Princeton Graduate Fellowship News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT NIMA RAHBAR Summer in Photos: 2021 September 08, 2021 Prof. Rahbar displays healed concrete WPI Researcher Develops Self-Healing Concrete June 08, 2021 Billiar works in the lab with Monica Leigh Whitehorn, a junior majoring in biomedical engineering. Exploring the Links between Mechanical Forces, Cell Death and Disease March 18, 2019 Faculty Promotions March 10, 2016 Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE CBS Boston Experts Say Record Rainfall Is Wreaking Havoc On Massachusetts Roads WPI civil engineering professor Nima Rahbar was interviewed for the CBS Boston segment on how excessive rainfall is creating more pothole problems. Fast Company This self-healing concrete automatically fills in cracks The reporter writes it looks a little like magic when referring to Professor Nima Rahbars research into self-healing concrete. However the Fast Company article takes a much deeper look at the problem of degrading concrete and the solution the WPI team is developing. THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
