Harold Webb Walker | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Harold Webb Walker Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Schwaber Professor Education:PhD Environmental Engineering University of California, Irvine 1996MS Civil Engineering University of California, Irvine 1994BS Environmental Engineering California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo 1991 Harold Walker is the Schwaber Professor of Environmental Engineering in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at WPI. Prior to his appointment at WPI, Professor Walker was the Founding Chair of the Department of Civil Engineering at Stony Brook University. Professor Walker also served as the co-Director of the New York State Center for Clean Water Technology at Stony Brook and was appointed by Governor Andrew Cuomo to the New York State Drinking Water Quality Council. Prior to Stony Brook, Dr. Walker was a Professor in the Department of Civil, Environmental, and Geodetic Engineering at The Ohio State University and served as the Director of the Ohio Water Resources Center. Dr. Walker is registered Professor Engineer in the state of Ohio.Dr. Walkers research focuses on understanding surface chemical processes in natural and engineered systems, with an emphasis on clean water. Current areas of research include: predicting the fate and transport of manufactured nanomaterials, cyanotoxins, and other emerging contaminants in groundwater, lakes, oceans, and water treatment plants; developing novel membrane treatment systems and membrane cleaning approaches; and the research and development of innovative, on-site wastewater treatment systems for removal of nitrogen. Dr. Walker has been funded by the National Science Foundation, US Environmental Protection Agency, United States Geological Survey, Department of Energy, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (through Sea Grant), and a variety of state agencies, industries, and other sources. Email hwwalker@wpi.edu Office Location 207C Kaven Hall Personal Website Scholarly Work Hadi Myavagh, P., Yang, M., Ma, H., Walker, H., and B. Hsiao (2019) Biofouling-Resistant Nanocellulose Layer in Hierarchical Polymeric Membranes: Synthesis, Characterization and Performance, J. Membrane Sci., 579, 162-171. - 2019 Li, N. Zheng, J., Hadi, P., Yang, M., Huang, X., Ma, H., Walker, H.W., and B.S Hsiao (2019) High Flux Nanocellulose-Cellulose Acetate Nanocomposite Membrane, Membranes, 6(9), 1-15. - 2019 Liu, Y.-L., Walker, H. W., and J. J. Lenhart (2019) Adsorption of Microcystin-LR onto Kaolinite, Illite and Montmorillonite, Chemosphere, 220, 696-705. - 2019 Zeng, Y.,, Zhu, Q., and H.W. Walker, (2017) Reduction of nitrate by NaY zeolite supported Fe, Cu/Fe and Mn/Fe nanoparticles, Journal of Hazardous Materials, 324 Part B, 605-616. - 2017 He, X. Liu, Y.-L. Conklin, A., Westrick, J., Weavers, L. Dionysiou, D., Lenhart, J. Mouser, P., and H. W. Walker (2016) Toxic cyanobacteria and drinking water supply: Impacts, detection, and treatment, Harmful Algae, 54, 174-193. - 2016 Walker, Harold W., Harmful Algae Blooms in Drinking Water: Removal of Cyanobacterial Cells and Toxins, CRC Press, 2015. - 2015 News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT HAROLD WEBB WALKER The Month in Photos: May 2021 June 11, 2021 WPI PhD candidate Heather LeClerc (foreground) and WPI PhD student David Kenney work together to seal and prepare the reactor used to produce bio-oil from toxic sludge. WPI Researchers Aim to Turn Toxic Sewage Sludge into Renewable Energy May 03, 2021 WPI MQP team designs modern wind energy system to augment windmill restoration. Students Design Could Help Turn 1800s Windmill into Modern Wind Energy System May 18, 2020 Authority on Water Treatment is WPIs New Schwaber Professor September 05, 2018 Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE WCAI Why Are Potentially Dangerous Algae Blooms Spreading Through Cape Ponds? Harold Walker, Schwaber Professor of Environmental Engineering, was interviewed for NPR affiliate WCAIabout toxic algae blooms in Cape Cod ponds. In her on-air report, reporter Eve Zuckoff noted her conversation with Walker. (Walker) basically said weve reached a point of high enough risk for ponds that the standard shouldnt be Is this unsafe? but rather, Is there proof that this IS safe? Newsday Water providers put cost for 1,4-dioxane treatment systems at $840M Newsday quoted Professor Harold Walker, civil and environmental engineering, in the article, Water Providers Put Cost for 1,4-Dioxane Treatment Systems at $840M THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
