Accessibility Guidelines & Resources | Accessibility Services | Faculty | Academics | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyAccessibility Services for FacultyAccessibility Guidelines & Resources Accessibility Services for Faculty Accessibility Guidelines & Resources Report a barrier at: https://fs28.formsite.com/webteamwpiedu/report-a-barrier/index.html As a WPI faculty member, youll have a variety of learners in your teaching and interactions with students. Students are often as eager to learn as professors are to teach, but sometimes face challenges with access to the material, asking for help, or sharingtheiraccommodation needs. Thissection provides you with some helpful resources to create a welcoming environment for students with disabilities and provide access to your course materials in various ways. Accessibility Services for Faculty Accessibility Guidelines & Resources Person-First Language and Etiquette Language can play an important role in making students feel comfortable approaching you to discuss accommodations. As a good rule of thumb, think about using person-first language rather than putting the disability first. As an example, you would refer to a student with a common reading-based disability as a student with dyslexiainstead of the dyslexic student. Individuals with disabilities are first and foremost people and do not want to be defined by his/her disability first. In fact, a student may choose not to share the specific disability with you but rather discuss functional limitations or how the disability will impact them in your classroom. Creating Accessible Materials A key point to course accessibility is to consider providing content multi-modally so that students can access material in a variety of ways. You can create content to be friendly to screen readers or provide captions for those that may use them. OAS has created aQuick Tips and Tricks for Document Accessibility guide, though there are many additional resources available in this area. Below, we will focus on Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Adobe Acrobat, and videos. Microsoft Word Creating an Accessible Office Document by Microsoft: self-paced course providing hands-on practice for implementing accessibility features in the context of varying disabilities (30-40 minutes) Creating Accessible Documents Videoby Microsoft: short video providing a brief tutorial on creating alternative text for images, heading paragraph styles and using the accessibility checker (5 minutes) Microsoft Wordby WebAIM (Web Accessibility in Mind): written tutorial including step-by-step instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics cover how to use headings, alternative text for images, accessibility challenges with data tables,links,accessibility checker and how to convert aWord document to HTML and PDF. Adobe Acrobat PDF PDF Accessibility by WebAIM (Web Accessibility In Mind): written tutorial including step-by-step instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics coverhow to convertto accessible PDFs, use tags, use theTouch Up Reading Order tool as well as provide an overview of other tools and features. Creating an Accessible PDF in Adobe Acrobatby Algonquin College: short video reviewing how to usethe Make Accessible feature, describing the document, recognizing text to OCR settings, and adding alternativetext to images(4 minutes) Microsoft PowerPoint PowerPoint Accessibility by WebAIM (Web Accessibility In Mind): written tutorial including step-by-step instructions with pictures and screen shots. Topics covered include slide layouts, alternative text for images, accessibility challenges with data tables, links, outline and notes panels, accessibility checker, and converting PowerPoint to HTML and PDF. Creating Accessible PowerPoint Presentations Videoby Algonquin College: short video reviewing step-by-step process to use built-in slide layouts, master slides, set tab orders, and avoid transitions and animations (5 minutes) Google Drive Gracklehas a free add-on to check for accessibility of Google Docs, Sheets or Slides. The free version has the ability to scan all documents in a Google Drive folder to assess whether they are accessible, or if accessibility improvements need to be made. Accessible Videos Creating Accessible Videos by Michigan State University: written guide providing instructions for creating captions and transcripts for videos. Links to related video tutorials and a free software download for transcribing materials are also provided. Additional Resources Disability Etiquette Guide: Created by the United Spinal Association to go into greater detail on interacting with people with disabilities overall as well as individuals with varying disability types The Faculty Room: Created by DO-IT (Disabilities, Opportunities, Internetworking, and Technology) at the University of Washington to provide faculty with increased resources and best practices relating to students with disabilities in the classroom CAST: Non-profit research and development organization that works to expand learningopportunities for all individuals, especially those with disabilities, through Universal Designfor Learning Office of the Provost Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Office of Accessibility Services THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
