Derren Rosbach | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Derren Rosbach Integrative & Global Studies Associate Teaching Professor Affiliated Department or Office:Office of Undergraduate StudiesEnvironmental & Sustainability StudiesInterdisciplinary & Global StudiesInternational & Global Studies Education:BA College of the Atlantic 1995MS Western Carolina University 2005PhD Virginia Tech 2010 The overarching goal of my teaching and research is to contribute to an interdisciplinary understanding of environmental governance and policy. More specifically, I focus on the building of individual, organizational and institutional capacities to participate in collaborative efforts to address complex social and environmental sustainability problems through the application of science and technology.My academic and professional background includes experience in molecular biology, microbial ecology, wildlife biology, sustainable forestry and most recently environmental policy and planning. What fascinates me the most are the dynamics of coupled social and natural systems and the collaborative interdisciplinary teams assembled to address pressing environmental and social challenges. My research aims to understand human impacts on the environment and how groups negotiate the values inherent in environmental policy choice making. In particular, I am interested in whether and how integrated approaches to problem-solving can help to address efforts to secure sustainability and to address other critical environmental issues.At WPI I currently teach the Great Problems Seminars: The World's Water and Power the World. I also teach courses in Environmental Studies and Civil and Environmental Engineering. My principal objective as a teacher and project adviser is to encourage students to think critically about the challenges land and natural resource use pose to society. This requires addressing the complex array of relationships between humans, technology and the diversity of environments we inhabit. I believe it is crucial to illustrate to students how social systems evolve in response to resource use and how specific values choices have been embedded, for good and ill, in policy instruments and outcomes. Ultimately, I seek to encourage students to learn how to think, rather than what to think. Email drosbach@wpi.edu Office Location 100 Institute RD Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x5826 Research Interests Research Interests:Environmental GovernanceSustainabilityScience and Technology StudiesPublic PolicyCross-Disciplinary Research Scholarly Work O'Connell, S. P., York, E. A., Collins, M. B., Rosbach, D., Black, K. R., & Haney, W. (2007). An initial inventory of bacteria found within the soils and waters of Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Southeastern Naturalist, Special Issue(1), 57-72. Rosbach, D. (2012). Building a Transdisciplinary Trading Zone. International Journal of Science in Society Volume 3, Issue 3, pp.17-30. News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT DERREN ROSBACH Celebrating the Power of Student Project Work with the Presidents IQP Award February 13, 2018 WPI Is Improving Food Security One Project at a Time September 06, 2017 Presidents IQP Awards Honors Five Finalists from More Than 60 Entries March 06, 2017 President's IQP Awards February 08, 2017 THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
