Faculty | Academics | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeacademicsFaculty Faculty In addition to being passionate about teaching, WPI professors are committed researchers and scholars with world-class credentials. They bring their research into the classroom and give students an opportunity to get involved. Like their students, they dont just believe in making the world a better place through science and technologytheyre doing it. WPI professors inspire and encourage their students as they drive them to higher achievement and greater success. They dont give students the answers; they show them how to find them. Office of the ProvostFaculty GovernanceResources for Researchers Academics FacultyFaculty AdvisingFaculty Advising Resources Student Counseling Accessibility Services for FacultyLetters of Accommodation Accessibility Guidelines & Resources Morgan Teaching & Learning CenterGraduate Student Resources PLA Training Funding Opportunities Teaching & Professional Development Meet the Team Writing ResourcesWriting & Communication Workshops Spring Institute Writing-Intensive Courses Project Resources Endowed Professorships Faculty Directory Faculty Collaborations Faculty Awards WPI is proud to have some of the most talented and respected faculty in their respective fields and industries. Our faculty are regularly recognized for their successes by entities such as the National Academy of Engineering, the National Science Foundation, the Fulbright Program, and many professional societies. We also recognizes excellence through a variety of award programs that provide the opportunity to acknowledge faculty and to celebrate successes and share accomplishments with the entire WPI community. View Recent Awards about Faculty Awards Career Paths One of the best-known and most coveted young faculty honors is the five-year CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Eight of these career-establishing awards have recently been bestowed on WPI researchers, along with the university'sfirst U.S. Air Force Young Investigator Award.These rising starsrepresent a depth of expertise in areas such as math, chemical engineering, biology, learning sciences, and cybersecurity. Read More in the WPI Journal about Career Paths News SEE MORE NEWS WPI Welcomes More Than 30 New Faculty Members December 07, 2021 Sam Walcott Researcher to Develop Model That Predicts Energy Needed for Muscle Movement November 09, 2021 Jurist Deans Professors (L-R) Dmitry Korkin, Danielle Cote, Emmanuel Agu, Carolina Ruiz, Pratap Rao Heather and Hal Jurist 61: Preserving the World for Future Generations November 08, 2021 Yu Zhong Leads Project to Improve Hydrogen Production October 28, 2021 Calendar SEE MORE EVENTS Dec08The Women of WPI Fireside Chat: Climate Adaptation7:00 pm to 8:00 pmJoin us for a faculty presentation on the importance of climate adaptation. See More Events Announcements SEE MORE ANNOUNCEMENTS New Event Guidelines, International Travel, COVID-19 Testing Schedule and More December 07, 2021 We Are WPI Progress: Latest on Wellness at WPI November 19, 2021 Office of the President Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE The Chronicle of Higher Education The Damaging Myth of the Natural Teacher The Chronicle of Higher EducationinterviewedDestin Heilman, professor of teaching, for its article.Heilman spoke about WPIs decision tocreate a pathto tenure and extend contracts for some teaching faculty, along with giving them a role in faculty governance. Spectrum News 1 WPI Researchers Use Mice to Identify Drugs Which Reduce Size of Breast Cancer Tumors Provost Wole Soboyejo appeared on Spectrum News 1discussing his research in identifying targeted drugs that reduced the sizes of hard-to-treat breast cancer tumors in mice without inducing the toxic side effects that are typically associated with conventional chemotherapy. International Faculty & Scholars Services at: https://www.wpi.edu/offices/international-house/faculty THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
