Instructors | Faculty & Staff | Civil & Environmental Engineering | Academics | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsSchools, Departments & Programs Civil, Environmental, & Architectural EngineeringFaculty & StaffInstructors Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Instructors Faculty & Staff Instructors Sergio Omar Alvarez-Romero Contingent Worker - CPE Adjunct Teaching Professor Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Email: soar6663@wpi.edu Wayne Edward Bates Adjunct Instructor/Lecturer Email: webates@wpi.edu Office: Kaven Hall Principal Engineer at Tighe & Bond. He specializes in water and wastewater treatment technologies with a focus on industrial wastewater treatment, process improvement, waste minimization, EH&S compliance, and sustainable manufacturing strategies. Dr. Bates is an adjunct professor teaching graduate courses in Industrial Waste (CE 563), Hazardous Waste Treatment (CE 567), Biosystems in Environmental Engineering (CE 562) and specialty courses (CE 590) in Green Engineering, Sustainable Infrastructure, and Emerging Trends in Corporate Sustainability. ... View Profile Luciana Burdi Adjunct Teaching Professor Email: lburdi@wpi.edu Office: Kaven Hall Architect and planner, and with almost 20 years of experience working and managing design and construction projects, Luciana Burdi, Deputy Director for Capital Programs and Environmental Affairs for Massport, has been an Adjunct Assistant Professor at WPI for the past 5 years. In her role Dr. Burdi uses Mediation and Consensus-building techniques as an integral part of her professional practice. Her ability to lead stakeholders in conflict over development proposals to a meaningful consensus makes her a skilled as negotiator and mediator. ... View Profile Gregory James Fitch Adjunct Instructor/Lecturer Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Email: gjfitch@wpi.edu Office: Kaven Hall Paul Marrone Adjunct Instructor Engineering Email: pamarrone@wpi.edu Office: Kaven Hall My job at WPI is to introduce students to the efficient uses of capital in decision making to guide projects from design through construction. In addition to presenting the pure math of capital manipulation, as found in the course material, I will develop a step-by-step practical term project in parallel with the class pace. Students planning a career in project management will certainly be asked to evaluate projects from a financial point of view. ... View Profile Brian O'Rourke Adjunct Instructor/Lecturer Email: borourke@wpi.edu Matthew J Robinson Adjunct Teaching Professor Engineering Email: mjrobinson@wpi.edu Office: Kaven Hall Teaching is a passion of mine because much of the power industry is based on experiential data that you can't find in textbooks. Our industries thrive when the collected experience of a workforce is passed down from one generation to the next and that is what I strive to teach in my classes. I have worked for over a decade in the power industry and have been very fortunate to experience a wide variety of work. My hope is that some of my knowledge and experience will help a young engineer build their professional credentials to help them excel at their chosen field. View Profile Clyde A. Robinson Adjunct Instructor/Lecturer Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Email: carobinson2@wpi.edu Office: Kaven Hall John M. Sullivan Professor Mechanical & Materials Engineering Email: sullivan@wpi.edu Office: Higgins Labs 111 Phone: +1 (508) 8315000 x5199 Teaching is the most important aspect of my profession. I have strived to teach the full spectrum of college offerings addressing freshman students through Ph.D. students. The project philosophy is a fundamental pillar of the WPI education. I encourage and promote this ideal in all of the projects that I advise. Students who bring a project to fruition gain more knowledge and understanding than most conventional instructional modes. I am committed to MQP and IQP activities. ... View Profile THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
