Leonard D. Albano | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Leonard D. Albano Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Associate Professor Affiliated Department or Office:Fire Protection Engineering Education:BS Civil Engineering Tufts University 1982MS Civil Engineering Northwestern University 1983PhD Structural Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) 1992 I enjoy teaching civil engineering fundamentals in 1000 and 2000-level courses, and then revisiting those fundamentals in upper level and graduate courses as a base for presenting advanced topics and fostering deeper learning. This emphasis on fundamentals can be challenging to undergraduates because they may not appreciate the relevance. Consequently, I integrate design projects into my undergraduate coursework to provide a context for learning and to emphasize my expectations for learning and actively applying the course material. I also work to align my approach to MQPs with my classroom philosophy, guiding students to build from their background learning experiences and to integrate new knowledge and skills. The key ideas for an MQP typically come from the students and their motivation to investigate certain aspects of civil engineering. Observing the evolution of an MQP from a few ideas in A term, to a substantial body of work and report by the end of C term is a wonderful experience, and the student energy on Project Presentation Day is invigorating. Email ldalbano@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 201 Research Interests Research Interests:Structural Engineering and Performance-based DesignStructural Fire SafetyIntegration of Design and ConstructionStructural Engineering Education Scholarly Work Performance-Based Structural Fire Safety - 2006 Problem-Based Learning in Structural Engineering Education - 2008 Case Study of the Seismic Performance of Reinforced Concrete Moment Frames Using ACE Design Provisions. - 2010 Evaluation of the Potential of Harvesting Heat Energy from Asphalt Pavements. - 2011 Fragility Estimates of Smart Structures with Sensor Faults. - 2013 Professional Highlights & Honors Professional Highlights &amp; Honors: 1996 19982000 Design-Build Institute of America (DBIA) THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
