Suzanne LePage | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Suzanne LePage Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Instructor Affiliated Department or Office:Environmental EngineeringEnvironmental StudiesCivil & Environmental Engineering Education:BS Civil Engineering Worcester Polytechnic Institute 1995MS Worcester Polytechnic Institute 2010 Having initially graduated from WPI with a bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering in 1995, I returned to teach part-time and pursue graduate studies in 2007. While the intervening years as a professional planner provided me with a wide variety of experience assisting towns and regions with long-term planning goals, the teaching and project advising activities at WPI have been infinitely more rewarding. I teach classes in urban and environmental planning and advise undergraduate projects in those topics and others. My research interests were primarily focused on storm water management because I view that field as a satisfying combination of engineering and planning disciplines. In a broader context, I am also concerned with finding sustainable solutions to food, water, and energy management. They are inextricably related to each other and are all finite resources that we rely on for sustenance and well-being. When I'm not at WPI, I keep busy at home with my family and friends: growing food; running a brewpub with my husband in Sturbridge; visiting the many waterside edges in New England; and pouring a lot of spiritual energy into writing, performing, and recording original music. Email slepage@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 209A Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x5598 Scholarly Work LePage, Suzanne & Rajib Mallick. Environmental Mitigation in Transportation Projects, Chapter 25 in Pavement Engineering: Principles and Practice, 2nd Ed. Taylor & Francis, awaiting publication. Hart, Frederick, Klaas Rodenburg, and Suzanne LePage. The Stantec Project Center: An Off-Campus Capstone Design Experience, Conference Proceedings, Capstone Design Conference, Boulder, CO, June 7-9 2010. LePage, Suzanne. An Investigation into the Water Quality Impacts of a Green Roof, Poster presentation at the 7th Annual Water Resources Research Conference, Amherst, MA. April 8, 2010. (second place award for poster) LePage, Suzanne. An Investigation of the Hydrologic and Geochemical Processes Contributing to Green Roof Performance, MS Thesis, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, May 2010. Silvestri, Chiara, Suzanne LePage, and Paul P. Mathisen. Enhancing Instruction in Civil Engineering Courses with Use of Video-Streamed Tutorials, Paper presented by S. LePage at the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) Northeast Section Conference 2010. Boston, MA, May 8, 2010. Professional Highlights & Honors Professional Highlights &amp; Honors: News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT SUZANNE LEPAGE Be The Change January 21, 2014 Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE Boston 25 LePage Interviewed About Governors Proposal to Ease Traffic Congestion Suzanne LePage, instructor, civil and environmental engineering, was interviewed by Boston 25as part of a segment on Boston traffic congestion and a Baker Administration proposal to give tax credits to employers letting employees telecommute. If were going to just try to work within the capacity that we have that, to me, seems like a logical solution, she said of the Baker proposal. Boston 25 Would you pay extra to drive in an express lane if it meant avoiding traffic? Boston 25 included an interview with Suzanne LePage, an instructor of civil engineering, in its segment, "Would You Pay Extra in an express lane if it meant avoiding traffic?"LePage worries that this would still create a traffic hierarchy based on who can pay.Anytime you introduce a cost to things, you have to think about equity and justice and is that now restricting access to some people in our population. THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
