Steven Van Dessel | WPI Skip to main content COVID-19 and Campus Updates Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo BEYOND THESE TOWERS Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Steven Van Dessel Civil, Environmental, & Architectural Engineering Associate Professor Affiliated Department or Office:Civil & Environmental Engineering Education:Diploma of Architecture Sint-Lucas Instituut, Brussels 1990PhD University of Florida 2000 My research and teaching activities are in the area of sustainable building design and building technology, with a special focus on the study of adaptive building envelop systems. One of the goals of our research is to develop smart materials that can alter their thermal properties in response to changing outdoor conditions, in order to conserve energy and optimize building thermal comfort. This research entails the use of energy modeling tools, experimental investigations, and the development of practical applications. The broader perspective of this work is to realize sustainable construction systems that minimize material consumption and optimize energy use while reducing costs. In this work we are also working with undergraduate students on projects that deal with the practical challenges of sustainable building design. Examples of such projects include participation in the US Department of Energy Solar Decathlon competitions, which focuses on the design of zero-energy buildings. Such projects are designed to offer opportunities to students that are interested in expanding their knowledge of environmental design, energy modeling tools, new materials, construction detailing, and the practical planning and construction of building projects. Email svandessel@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 206 Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x4895 Research Interests Research Interests:Advanced Materials for Sustainable and Smart Buildings Adaptive Building EnvelopesEnergy Efficient BuildingsSustainable DesignAffordable Housing Scholarly Work Youssefian S, Rahbar N, Lambert CR, Van Dessel S. 2017 Variation of thermal conductivity of DPPC lipid bilayer membranes around the phase transition temperature. Journal of the Royal Society - Interface 14: 20170127. (2017) - 2017 Gert Guldentops and Steven Van Dessel, A numerical and experimental study of a cellular passive solar faade system for building thermal control, Solar Energy, Volume 149, June 2017, Pages 102-113 (2017) - 2017 Guldentops Gert, Van Dessel Steven, Building Envelope Systems with transparent Solid-Solid Phase Changing Material, towards resilient zero-energy buildings Architectural Engineering Institute Conference 2017, April 11-13, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 2017 Guldentops Gert, Van Dessel Steven, Experimental and numerical study of building skins using small greenhouse cells and phase change materials Proceedings of the 11th Conference on Advanced Building Skins, 10-11 October 2016, Bern, Switzerland - 2016 Narain, J., Jin, W., Ghandehari, M., Wilke, E., Shukla, N., Berardi, U., El-Korchi, T., and Van Dessel, S. "Design and Application of Concrete Tiles Enhanced with Microencapsulated Phase-Change Material", Journal of Architectural Engineering, http://dx.doi.org/10.1061/(ASCE)AE.1943-5568.0000194, 05015001. - 2015 Zabeti Targhi, S. Van Dessel, Potential contribution of urban developments to outdoor thermal comfort conditions: The influence of urban geometry and form in Worcester, Massachusetts, USA International Conference on Sustainable Design, Engineering and Construction - ICSDEC 2015, 10 - 13 May 2015, Chicago, USA - 2015 View More News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT STEVEN VAN DESSEL The Month in Photos: November 2020 December 03, 2020 WPI Professor Designs Worcester's WWI Memorial November 30, 2020 Shichao Liu WPI Awarded NSF Grant to Study Stress and Remote Learning May 13, 2020 The Month in Photos: January 2020 February 07, 2020 Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE Telegram.com New WWl memorial at Green Hill Park Steven Van Dessel, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering, and his students were highlighted inThe Telegram & Gazette(scroll down to last graph) for designing the new WWl memorial at Green Hill Park, which was unveiled yesterday. Forbes Too Hot, Too Cold? Scientists Search For The Optimal Temperature For Learning Forbes reported online about research led by Shichao Liu to study the optimal indoor conditions for learning. Liu, Jacob Whitehill and Steven Van Dessel received $299,991 develop technologies that detect and boost student engagement in lessons by controlling classroom temperature, ventilation, and lighting. Patents Retrofitting Buildings for Energy Efficiency THE CAMPAIGN FOR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE BEYONDTHESETOWERS Now, more than ever, the world needs what we have created and what we do at WPI. BE A PART OF IT About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Innovation & Entrepreneurship Library Offices WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
