Carl Mueller UR Mathematics Personal pages Faculty Carl Mueller Preprints and Reprints Advice for Probability Graduate Students Graduate Students Publications Graduate students Staff Personal pages Faculty Carl Mueller Carl Mueller Department of Mathematics University of Rochester Rochester, NY 14627 carl dot e dot mueller at rochester dot e du. Office Hours: Tuesdays 1:00pm - 2:00pm Thursdays 11:30am - 12:30pm Classes Fall 2021 Math 210H, Introduction to Financial Mathematics (Honors) Spring 2022 Math 142, Calculus II Math 403, Theory of Probability Research Interests Probability and related parts of analysis. I am interested in stochastic processes in which there is not only a time parameter, but an extra parameter such as space. Currently, my main interest is in stochastic partial differential equations (SPDE). Most physical systems are described in terms of partial differential equations, and random noise influences most of these systems. This leads to the study of SPDE. I usually study the qualitative properties of solutions to nonlinear SPDE, such as blow-up, support, die-out, phase transitions, SPDE with singular solutions, and SPDE with vector-valued solutions. I have also dealt with the convergence of particle systems to SPDE. Some of my research is inspired by connections between SPDE and a particle system called the Dawson-Watanabe process (or super-Brownian motion). Recently I have studied hitting properties of vector-valued solutions to SPDE. Biography I received my Ph.D. from the Berkeley Statistics Department in 1979. I was an NSF postdoc at the University of Illinois from 1979 - 1981, an assistant professor at the University of Texas from 1981 - 1984, and then came to Rochester. Now Im a full professor. Ive taken sabbaticals at the University of Minnesota, University of British Columbia, the Math Sciences Research Institute at Berkeley, the Mittag-Leffler Institute outside of Stockholm, and again at the Math Sciences Research Institute at Berkeley. Links: Professional Publications Preprints and Reprints Graduate Students Probability Page, UR Math Dept Links: Advice Advice for Probability Graduate Students Links: Actuarial UR Actuarial Certificate Society of Actuaries Explorer UR Alumni Contacts in the Actuarial World, and Career Advice Questions or comments? Please contact us: webmaster at math dot rochester dot edu
