James Brinkley | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education http://www.uwmedicine.org Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Unleash the potential for information to improve biomedicine, health and education. Toggle navigation Main Menu About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education > All BIME Core & Extended Faculty > James Brinkley James Brinkley, MD, PhD Professor Emeritus, Biological Structure Retired Joint Professor, Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Fellow, American College of Medical Informatics Director, UW Structural Informatics Group brinkley@uw.edu Website Interests: Retired Professor, Professor Emeritus in Biological Structure. Interests in structural informatics with emphasis on multimedia data management, ontologies, data integration, the semantic web, and visualization as applied to biomedicine; potential applications of structural informatics in areas outside biomedicine, such as music. No longer accepting students. Background: Informatics research on 2-D and 3-D imaging and modeling, ontologies, data management, data integration and visualization; established in 1991 the subfield of informatics known as structural informatics, whose fundamental premise within biomedicine is that the structure of the body is the most rational means for organizing biomedical information. Education: B.A., Amherst College; M.D., University of Washington; Ph.D., Stanford University, Medical Computer Engineering. Research: 1) the Foundational Model of Anatomy (FMA), a large ontology of anatomy; and 2) the FMA-based Ontology of Craniofacial Development and Malformation (OCDM), for the national FaceBase Consortium, whose goal is to collect and integrate multi-species data related to the development of craniofacial abnormalities such as cleft lip. Inactive projects, but ones whose software we still use, include the Digital Anatomist and Anatomy Engine for anatomy education, and the Query Integrator, for facilitating a web of interlinked queries over knowledge and data. For more information see http://www.si.washington.edu Teaching: I am no longer accepting students. However, I am happy to talk with students about possible career paths or other mentors to work with. Representative publications: Brinkley, J.F. 1991 Structural informatics and its applications in medicine and biology. Academic Medicine 66(10):589-591. Rosse, C., Shapiro, L.G. and Brinkley, J.F. 1998 The Digital Anatomist foundational model: principles for defining and structuring its concept domain. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, Symposium Supplement, pp 820-824. Brinkley JF, Borromeo C, Clarkson M, Cox TC, Cunningham ML, Detwiler LT, et al. The Ontology of Craniofacial Development and Malformation for translational craniofacial research. Am J Med Genet Part C Semin Med Genet. 2013;164(4):23245. Brinkley JF, Detwiler LT. A Query Integrator and Manager for the Query Web. Journal of Biomedical Informatics. 2012;45:97591. Main Sidebar Contact Us About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Site Map Upcoming Events UW Medicine Copyright 2021 | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education University of Washington
