Sherrilynne Fuller's Home Page SherrilynneFuller,Ph.D. Professor, Department of Biomedical and Health Informatics, School of Medicine Professor, InformationSchool Adjunct Professor, Department of Health Services, School of Public Health Co-Director, Center for Public Health Informatics Box 35-4985 University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195 Email --sfuller@u.washington.edu Web --http://faculty.washington.edu/sfuller/ Center for Public Health Informatics Brief Biographical Sketch: Fuller is Professor, Biomedical and Health Informatics, School of Medicine ; Professor (Adjunct) Health Services, School of Public Health and Professor (Joint), Information School, and senior advisor, Dean, University Libraries all at the University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. She received her BA (Biology) and MLS (information Science) degrees from Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA and her PhD (Information Science) from the University of Southern California, Los Angeles California, USA. Fuller has led several large-scale campus and regional research and development projects in the areas of biomedical and health informatics, telemedicine and information technology. One of the first web-based medical record systems in the world (Mindscape), which still in use at UW Medical Center and Harborview Medical Center, was a product of her IAIMS (Integrated Academic Information Management System) program leadership for the UW Academic Health Sciences Center. As Director, Health Sciences Libraries, University of Washington for over twenty years she led the development of state of art library and information systems with particular emphasis on linking library resources to clinical information systems in the UW Medical Centers and development of knowledge mining and mapping systems. As Co-Director, Center for Public Health Informatics Fuller has led the development of innovative computing and information systems projects to improve public health practice nationally and internationally with a particular focus on open source decision support tools and knowledge management systems. She was a contributor to the development of EpiVue, an open source data visualization tool for public health. Fuller has lectured, led training programs and consulted throughout the world on the development of interoperable health information systems for low resource environments and on the creation of education and research programs in biomedical and health informatics. Examples of international courses and workshops she has led in recent years include: Introduction to Public Health Informatics Principles in Health Information Systems Development Within the Vietnam Health System (Hanoi School of Public Health, Hanoi, Vietnam); Improving Health Outcomes through Interoperability (Ministry of Health leaders and university faculty from throughout the Mekong Basin region countries and beyond); Health Informatics for HIV/AIDS Data Management Fellowship Program (University of Nairobi, Kenya); Biomedical and Health Informatics Resources, Tools and Technologies (multiple courses over past ten years in collaboration with Cayetano-Heredia University, Lima, Peru). She is currently part of an international collaboration contributing to Strengthening HIV Strategic Health Management Information Systems in Tanzania with particular responsibility for supporting the development of the Enterprise Architecture and e-health strategy. Fuller served as the founding head of the Division of Biomedical and Health Informatics, School of Medicine (1997-2001) and as the Director, Health Sciences Libraries and Associate Dean of Libraries (1988-2008). Fuller was a member of the President's (White House) Information Technology Advisory Committee (PITAC) and co-chaired the PITACSubCommitteeon Transforming Healthcare;the Board of Regents of the National Library of Medicine and on the Boards of the American Medical Informatics Association and the Medical Library Association. She is an elected fellow of the Medical Library Association and the American College of Medical Informatics. Current Research: Principal Investigator Strengthening HIV Strategic Health Management Information System (HMIS) Activities in the UnitedRepublic ofTanzania to Improve Informatics and Data Use within the Health Sector under the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)Grantee:PEPFAR Grant to Research Triangle Institute (RTI) with subcontract to UW2010-2015 Principal Investigator QUIPU: The Andean Global Health Informatics Research and Training Center. Fogarty International Center Award to Cayetano-Heredia University with subcontract to UW. Caytano-Heredia PI, Dr. Patricia Garcia. 2009-2014 Training HIV Program Managers forKenyaGrantee:University of Nairobi2008-2012Role: Lead UW Educator in Public Health Informatics Prior Recent Research: Principal Investigator Building the Global Partners in Public Health Informatics.The goal of this work is to support the development of an international network of individuals, institutions and organization focused on building capacity in public health in low and middle income settings.Rockefeller Foundation.2008-2010 Principal Investigator Mahidol University, Center of Excellence in BiomedicalandPublicHealth InformaticsTraining and Support with particular emphasis onThe Mekong Basin Region.2008-2010 Selected Publications: BOOKS Chen HC, Fuller SS, Friedman C, Hersh W. co-editors.Medical Informatics: Knowledge Management and Data Mining in Biomedicine.NY, Springer, 2005 Norris TE, Fuller S, Tarczy-Hornoch P, Goldberg H, co-editors.Informatics in Primary Care.New York, Springer-Verlag, 2002. BOOK CHAPTERS Revere D, Bugni PF, Dahlstrom L, FullerSSmyPublicHealth:Utilizing Knowledge Management to Improve Public Health Practice and Decision Making.In:LiebowitzJ,SchieberRA,AndreadisJD.Knowledge Management in Public Health,CRCPress, 2010 Fuller SS, Masuda D, Gorman PN, Lindberg DAB.Medical Informatics and Information Access.In:GeymanJP, Hart G, Norris T., eds.Textbook of Rural Health Care.New York, McGraw-Hill, 2001. Revere D, Fuller SS.Characterizing biomedical concept relationships:Concept relationships as a pathway for knowledge creation and discovery.In:Chen, HC, FULLER SS, Friedman C, Hersh W.Medical Informatics:Knowledge Management and Data Mining in Biomedicine.New York, Springer, 2005. Watson L, Fuller SS.Managing and leveraging organizational knowledge:Commentary.In: Detmer D, Steen E.The Academic Health Center: Leadership and Performance.Cambridge, England, Cambridge University Press, 2005. REFEREED ARTICLES Fuller, S "From Intervention to Prevention Informatics " Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science 38 (1): 36-41, 2011. Fuller S Tracking the Global Express:New Tools Addressing Disease Threats Across the WorldEpidemiology21(6):1-2, 2010 (In Press)[Invited] Curioso WH, Fuller S, Garcia PJ, Holmes KK, Kimball AM. Ten Years of International Collaboration in Biomedical Informatics and Beyond: The AMAUTA Program in Peru. J Am Med Inform Assoc 2010;17(4):477-480. Kimball AM; Curioso WH, Arima Y, Fuller SS,Garcia PJ,Segovia-Juarez, J,Castagnetto JM, Leon-VelardeF, Holmes KKDeveloping Capacity in Health Informatics in a Resource Poor setting: a Case Study from Peru.Human Resources forHealth2009 Doctor JN, B. J., Lober WB, Davies J, Kobayashi J, Karras BT, Fuller S. (2008). "Time-Tradeoff Utilities for Identifying and Evaluating a Minimum Data Set for Time-Critical Biosurveillance.. ."MedDecisMaking.28(May-Jun;(3)): 351-8, 2008, Yi Q, Hoskins RE,HillringhouseEA, Sorensen SS, Oberle MW, Fuller SS, Wallace JC.Integrating open-source technologies to build low-cost information systems for improved access to public health data.International Journal of HealthGeographics2008, 7:29/ Curioso W, Hansen J, Centurion-Lara A, Garcia P, Wolf F, Fuller S, Holmes K, Kimball A,NodellB.Evaluation of a Joint Bioinformatics and Medical InformaticsInternational Course in Peru.BioMedCentral Medical Education, 8:1, 2008. Anderson N, Lee ES,BrockenbroughJS,MinieM, Fuller S, Brinkley J, Tarczy-Hornoch P.Issues in Biomedical Research Data Management and Analysis: Needs and Barriers. J Am Med Inform Assoc 14(4): 478-88, 2007. Revere D, Turner A,MadhavanA, Rambo N, Bugni PF, Kimball AM, Fuller SS.Understanding the information needs of public health practitioners: a literature review to inform design of an interactive digital knowledge management system.Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 2007 Special Issue on Public Health Informatics. Fuller SS,RevereD, Bugni, P, Martin, G.A knowledgebase system to enhance scientific discovery: Telemakus Biomedical Digital Libraries1:2-15,2004URL: http://www.bio-diglib.com/content/1/1/2 Press NO, Sahali R, Burroughs CM, Frank K, Rambo N, Wood FB, Siegel ER, Fuller SS.Program Management and Policy Issues in Information Outreach: Lessons from Tribal Connections.Journal of Health and Social Policy, 17(3):1-20, 2003. REV 2012-02-07
