Janice A. Sabin | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education http://www.uwmedicine.org Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Unleash the potential for information to improve biomedicine, health and education. Toggle navigation Main Menu About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education > All BIME Core & Extended Faculty > Janice A. Sabin Janice A. Sabin, PhD, MSW Research Associate Professor, Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education sabinja@uw.edu Website Interests: The science of implicit (unconscious) bias and effects on medical care; workforce diversity; health equity and social determinants of health; health care delivery to health disparity populations; patient-provider communication; culturally tailored health communication, faculty development. Background: MSW Health/Mental Health (UW); NIMH Prevention Science Research Trainee; PhD Social Welfare (UW). One of the earliest investigators in the nation to apply the science of implicit bias to health care disparities research. Research: The science of implicit bias; pediatricians racial bias/discrimination in treatment decisions, provider race and /weight bias; stereotypes toward people with mental illnesses; lesbian women and gay men; design/evaluate health disparities education for faculty, graduate medical and nursing trainees. Teaching: Interactive, online/in-person presentation/workshops on healthcare disparities and the science of implicit bias. Mentor trainees interested in health equity. Other Roles: Faculty: Pediatric Pulmonary Leadership Training Grant (MCHB) Seattle Childrens Hospital, Affiliated Faculty: UWSOM Center for Health Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (CEDI), Adjunct Faculty: School of Social Work. Representative publications: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=hopW2ywAAAAJ&hl=en Sabin, JA, Rivara, FP, Greenwald, AG, 2008. Physician implicit attitudes and stereotypes about race and quality of medical care, Medical Care, 46 (7) July 2008, 678-685. PMID:18580386 Sabin, JA, Nosek, BA, Greenwald, AG, Rivara, FP, 2009. Physician implicit and explicit attitudes about race by MD race/ethnicity and gender. J of Health Care for the Poor and Underserved, 20 (3), 903-920. PMID:19648715, NIHMS365001 Cooper, LA, Roter, D, Carson, KA, Beach, M, Sabin, JA, Greenwald, AG, Inui, TS, 2012. Implicit Racial Bias among Clinicians, Communication Behaviors, and Patient Ratings of Interpersonal Care, American Journal of Public Health 102 (5), 979-987. PMID:2420787 Sabin, JA, Greenwald AG, 2012.The Influence of Implicit Bias on Treatment Recommendations for Four Common Pediatric Conditions: Pain, Urinary Tract Infection, ADHD, and Asthma, American Journal of Public Health 102 (5), 988-995. PMID: 22420817 Sabin, JA, Stuber, J, Rocha, A, Greenwald, A, 2015, Providers Implicit and Explicit Beliefs about Mental Illnesses and Clinical Competencies in Recovery, Social Work in Mental Health, 13, 495-513. Sabin, JA, Riskind, R, Nosek, BA, 2015, Healthcare Providers Implicit and Explicit Attitudes Toward Lesbian Women and Gay Men, American Journal of Public Health, 105 (9), 1831-1841. Sabin, JA, Moore, K, Noonan, C, Lallemand, O, Buchwald, D, 2015, Implicit and Explicit Attitudes about Weight and Race and their Association with Weight Management of American Indian Children, Childhood Obesity, 11, (4), 456-465. Martin, G, Kirgis, J, Sid, E, Sabin, JA, 2016, Equitable Imagery in the Pre-Clinical Medical School Curriculum, Academic Medicine, published first on line, February 4, 2016. Online Courses/Education Sabin, JA, 2017 2019, Implicit Bias in the Clinical and Learning Environment, online course for clinical faculty across the WWAMI region. Sabin, Morales, Barrington, Overstreet, UW Record of Innovation #47781. https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1173964 N=800 completions as of 2/2019. Sabin, JA, 2017 2019, funding UW Race & Equity Initiative, workshop to complement course: Implicit Bias in the Clinical and Learning Environment. http://cedi-web01.s.uw.edu/faculty-diversity-resources/implicit-bias-in-the-clinical-and-learning-environment-workshop/ Sabin, JA, funding UW Race & Equity Initiative 2017 2019, Appropriate Use of the Implicit Association Test for Educational Purposes, 20 m Video: Dr. Janice Sabin interview with Dr. Anthony Greenwald, inventor of the Implicit Association Test (IAT), the implicit revolution and appropriate use of the IAT in educational settings. http://cedi-web01.s.uw.edu/video/ Main Sidebar Contact Us About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Site Map Upcoming Events UW Medicine Copyright 2021 | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education University of Washington
