Sara Kim | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education http://www.uwmedicine.org Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Unleash the potential for information to improve biomedicine, health and education. Toggle navigation Main Menu About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education > All BIME Core & Extended Faculty > Sara Kim Sara Kim, PhD Research Professor, Surgery Adjunct Research Professor, Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education George G. B. Bilsten Professor in the Art of Communication with Peers and Patients sarakim@uw.edu Interests: Educational continuous quality improvement, healthcare communication skills, conflict management negotiation research Background: PhD in Education from University of Washington in 1999. Currently, serves as Associate Dean for Educational Quality Improvement, School of Medicine, University of Washington and is the inaugural holder of the George G. B. Bilsten Professorship in the Art of Communication with Peers and Patients. Research and teaching focus in conflict management through collaboration with a wide range of clinical, administrative and educational stakeholders across UW Medicine to develop and disseminate communication skill training programs. Research: My current research focuses on healthcare conflict and communication skills as follows: Arnold P. Gold Foundation (KIM, PI), 11/1/15-2/28/17, $15,000, Activate For Inquiry: A Model for Creating and Sustaining a Culture of Speaking Up The major goal is to create and pilot a novel curriculum that promotes healthcare providers commitment and ability to speak up patient safety concerns. The curriculum will be validated with charge nurses, ICU teams, and residents. Arnold P. Gold Foundation (KIM, PI), 9/1/15-2/28/17, $5,000, Equalizing Voices: the Power Hierarchy in Healthcare The major goal is to conduct a scoping literature review that focuses on how power differentials and organizational hierarchy affect healthcare providers motivation to speak up or withhold from speaking up. Representative publications: Kim, S, Phillips, WR, Pinsky, L, Brock, DM, Phillips, K, Keary, J. A conceptual framework for developing teaching cases: A review and synthesis of literature across disciplines. Medical Education. 2006 40(9):867-76. Kim, S, Phillips, WR, Huntington, J, Astion, ML, Keerbs, A, Pinsky, L, Dresden, G, Sharma, U, Shearer, DW. Medical Case Teaching on the Web: Principles, Strategies and Examples. Teaching and Learning in Medicine. 2007 Spring;19(2):106-14. Kim, S, Brock, D, Prouty, C, Odegard, P, Shannon, S, Robins, L, Boggs, JG, Clark, FJ, Gallagher, TH. Development of the Web-based Team-Oriented Medical Error Communication Assessment Tool. Teaching and Learning in Medicine. 2011 23:68-77. Abu-Rish, E, Kim, S, Choe, Lapio, Varpio, L, et al. Current Trends in Interprofessional Education of Health Sciences Students: A Literature Review. Journal of Interprofessional Care. 2012; 26(6):444-51. (Winner of the 2012 Baldwin Award) Kim, S, Buttrick, E, Bohannon, I, Fehr, R, Frans, E, Shannon, SE. When Focusing on the Patient is Complicated: Conflict Narratives from the Healthcare Frontline. Conflict Resolution Quarterly. 2016:33(3):255-277. Kim, S, Buttrick, E, Bohanon, I, Fehr, R, Frans, E, Shannon, S. From A Hot Seat Simulation Model for Conflict Resolution: A Pilot Study. Journal of Healthcare Quality (Accepted) Main Sidebar Contact Us About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Site Map Upcoming Events UW Medicine Copyright 2021 | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education University of Washington
