Hoifung Poon at Microsoft Research Skip to Header Skip to Search Skip to Content Skip to Footer Skip to main content Microsoft Research Research Research Home Our research Resources Resources Publications Code & datasets People Microsoft Research blog Webinars & tutorials Research areas: Intelligence Research areas: Intelligence Artificial intelligence Audio & acoustics Computer vision Graphics & multimedia Human-computer interaction Human language technologies Search & information retrieval Research areas: Systems Research areas: Systems Data platforms and analytics Hardware & devices Programming languages & software engineering Quantum computing Security, privacy & cryptography Systems & networking Research areas: Theory Research areas: Theory Algorithms Mathematics Research areas: Other Sciences Research areas: Other Sciences Ecology & environment Economics Medical, health & genomics Social sciences Technology for emerging markets Programs & events Academic Programs Academic Programs Overview Programs for faculty Programs for students Collaborations Events & conferences Events & conferences Events & academic conferences Webinars & tutorials Blogs & podcasts Microsoft Research blog Microsoft Research podcast Behind the Tech podcast About People & news People & news About Microsoft Research Careers & internships People Emeritus program News & awards Microsoft Research newsletter Microsoft Research Labs Microsoft Research Labs Amsterdam Asia Lab (Chinese) Asia Lab (English) Cambridge India Montreal New England New York City Redmond Other labs Other labs Applied Sciences Mixed Reality & AI - Cambridge Mixed Reality & AI - Zurich Advanced Technology Lab Cairo More Sign up: Research Newsletter All Microsoft Microsoft 365 Azure Office 365 Dynamics 365 Power Platform Windows 10 Products & Services Products & Services Windows Server Enterprise Mobility + Security Power BI Teams Visual Studio Microsoft Advertising Emerging Technologies Emerging Technologies AI Internet of Things Azure Cognitive Services Quantum Microsoft HoloLens Mixed Reality Developer & IT Developer & IT Docs Developer Center Windows Dev Center Windows IT Pro Center FastTrack Power Platform Partner Partner Partner Network Solution Providers Partner Center Cloud Hosting Industries Industries Education Financial services Government Health Manufacturing & resources Retail Other Other Security Licensing AppSource Azure Marketplace Events Research View Sitemap Search Search Microsoft Research Cancel Hoifung Poon Senior Director, Biomedical NLP About Projects Publications Downloads News & features About Senior Director of Biomedical NLP at Microsoft Health Futures. Medicine today is imprecise. For the top 20 prescription drugs in the U.S., 80% of patients are non-responders. The advent of big data heralds a new era of precision medicine, where treatments become increasingly effective by tailoring to individual patients. For example, the rapid advance in sequencing technology has reached the exciting disruption point of $1000 person genome, making it affordable to identify genetic mutations in individual tumors. Unfortunately, big data also leads to information overload, making it hard to separate signal from noise. Today, it takes hours for a molecular tumor board of many highly trained specialists to review a patients genomics data and make treatment decisions. With 1.7 million new cancer cases and 600 thousand deaths in the U.S. each year, this is clearly not scalable. My research interests lie in advancing machine learning and NLP to overcome the knowledge and reasoning bottlenecks in precision medicine, which spans three interconnected areas: Biomedical NLP: Biomedicine differs from general domains such as newswire and web. Were pursuing foundational research in self-supervised learning and human-in-the-loop machine reading, to address substantial challenges in biomedicine that have been underexplored in mainstream NLP. PubMed-scale knowledge graph: PubMed adds two new biomedical papers every minute and over a million every year. By extracting biomedical entities and relations from all PubMed papers, we can facilitate clinical decision support as in molecular tumor board, as well as clinical research such as drug discovery and repurposing. Population-level real-world evidence (RWE): Developing an FDA-approved drug can take over a decade and cost more than $2 billion. Randomized-controlled trials are the gold standard of medicine, but they are expensive and time-consuming to run, while covering only a tiny fraction of patients. Electronic medical records (EMRs) contain valuable clinical observations that can be used to augment clinical trial data, with potential applications in synthetic control, post-market surveillance, pragmatic trials, as well as accelerating clinical trial recruitment. Currently, curation of biomedical knowledge and patient information is done manually, which is hard to scale. Assisted curation powered by machine reading can drastically accelerate curation efficiency. However, standard machine reading approaches require painstakingly annotating many labeled examples, which limits their applicability. At Microsoft, I lead Project Hanover, where we overcome the annotation bottleneck by exploiting indirect supervision from readily available resources such as ontologies and existing databases. We developed a general framework for incorporating diverse forms of indirect supervision, by combining deep learning with probabilistic logic. We expanded the scope of machine reading from single sentences to cross-sentence and document-level. We proposed novel neural architectures such as graph LSTMs for incorporating and reasoning with linguistic constraints. Most recently, we challenge the conventional paradigm for domain-specific language model pretraining and attain state-of-the-art results in a wide range of biomedical NLP tasks. We have released our state-of-the-art PubMedBERT models and BLURB, a comprehensive benchmark for biomedical NLP. (See our blog post.) Building on past work in Literome, these advances enable us to create literature machine readers for a variety of domains, from fundamental biology (e.g., genetic pathways) to translational medicine (e.g., precision oncology), all without labeled examples. Our latest system reads all publicly available biomedical literature (30 million PubMed abstracts and 5 million PMC full-text articles). In a matter of minutes, Hanover found several times as many facts as a whole year of manual curation at an NCI-designated cancer center. These facts can be quickly validated by expert curators in an assisted curation interface, potentially increasing curation efficiency and coverage by a wide margin. Our team now starts exploring clinical machine reading for harnessing real-world evidence and facilitating clinical trial matching. In the long run, we are also interested in leveraging machine reading results in cancer decision support and chronic disease modeling. For more information, check out our recent tutorials in AAAI-18 and ACL-17 (Slides). I have given invited talks at various places including UIUC, J. Craig Venter Institute, University of Colorado at Denver, University of Maryland, Johns Hopkins, University of Massachusetts, MIT, and University of Washington. Here are the slides for an MIT talk in 2015 (thanks Regina Barzilay for inviting me), and the video for a talk in NIPS-14. I obtained B.S. with Distinction in Computer Science from Sun Yat-Sen University, and Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering (my dissertation) from University of Washington, advised by Pedro Domingos. I am an affiliated faculty at UW Medicine, and serve as co-PI for various academic projects such as DARPA Big Mechanisms. My past work spans diverse topics in machine learning and NLP, and has been recognized with Best Paper Awards in top conferences such as NAACL, EMNLP, and UAI. For more information, check out my publications and LinkedIn profile. Selected Press Coverage: Bloomberg Technology, Microsoft News, Verge, ZDNet, eWeek, Puget Sound Business Journal, SWE Magazine cover story, Popular Mechanics, Der Spiegel, Medscape, Microsoft AI Blog, GeekWire, FierceHealthcare, GenomeWeb, Venture Beat, Microsoft Research Blog, Microsoft Biomedical Search, Microsoft Tech Minutes: Biomed NLP. Publications Modular Self-Supervision for Document-Level Relation Extraction. [Paper] Sheng Zhang, Cliff Wong, Naoto Usuyama, Sarthak Jain, Tristan Naumann, Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2021. Breaching the curation bottleneck with human-machine reading symbiosis. [Paper] Cliff Wong, Rajesh Rao, Taofei Yin, Cara Statz, Susan Mockus, Sara Patterson, Hoifung Poon. Domain-Specific Pretraining for Vertical Search: Case Study on Biomedical Literature. [Paper] [Microsoft Biomedical Search] Yu Wang, Jinchao Li, Tristan Naumann, Chenyan Xiong, Hao Cheng, Robert Tinn, Cliff Wong, Naoto Usuyama, Richard Rogahn, Zhihong Shen, Yang Qin, Eric Horvitz, Paul N. Bennett, Jianfeng Gao, Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD), 2021. Domain-Specific Language Model Pretraining for Biomedical Natural Language Processing. [Paper, BLURB, MSR Blog, Webinar] Yu Gu, Robert Tinn, Hao Cheng, Michael Lucas, Naoto Usuyama, Xiaodong Liu, Tristan Naumann, Jianfeng Gao, Hoifung Poon. Special Issue on Computational Methods for Biomedical Natural Language Processing, ACM Transactions on Computing for Health, 2021. Targeted Adversarial Training for Natural Language Understanding. [Paper] Lis Pereira, Xiaodong Liu, Hao Cheng, Hoifung Poon, Jianfeng Gao, Ichiro Kobayashi. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL), 2021. Self-Supervised Self-Supervision by Combining Deep Learning and Probabilistic Logic. [Paper] Hunter Lang, Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the Thirty Fifth Annual Meeting of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2021. Adversarial Training for Large Neural Language Models. [Paper] Xiaodong Liu, Hao Cheng, Pengcheng He, Weizhu Chen, Yu Wang, Hoifung Poon, Jianfeng Gao. The Microsoft Toolkit of Multi-Task Deep Neural Networks for Natural Language Understanding. [Paper] Xiaodong Liu, Yu Wang, Jianshu Ji, Hao Cheng, Xueyun Zhu, Emmanuel Awa, Pengcheng He, Weizhu Chen, Hoifung Poon, Guihong Cao, Jianfeng Gao. In Proceedings of the Fifty Eighth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), Demo paper, 2020. DoubleTransfer at MEDIQA 2019: Multi-Source Transfer Learning for Natural Language Understanding in the Medical Domain. [Paper] Yichong Xu, Xiaodong Liu, Chunyuan Li, Hoifung Poon, and Jianfeng Gao. In Proceedings of BioNLP, August 2019. Augmenting subnetwork inference with information extracted from the scientific literature. [Paper] Sid Kiblawi, Deborah Chasman, Amanda Henning, Eunju Park, Hoifung Poon, Michael Gould, Paul Ahlquist, Mark Craven. In PLOS Computational Biology, June 2019. Document-Level N-ary Relation Extraction with Multiscale Representation Learning. [Paper, Code] Robin Jia, Cliff Wong, Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL), June 2019. Deep Probabilistic Logic: A Unifying Framework for Indirect Supervision. [Paper, Code] Hai Wang and Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), November 2018. EZLearn: Exploiting Organic Supervision in Automated Data Annotation. [Paper] Maxim Grechkin, Hoifung Poon, Bill Howe. In the 27th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), July 2018. Estimating Accuracy from Unlabeled Data: A Probabilistic Logic Approach. [Paper] Emmanouil A. Platanios, Hoifung Poon, Tom M. Mitchell, Eric Horvitz. In NIPS, December 2017. Classification of common human diseases derived from shared genetic and environmental determinants. [Paper] Kanix Wang, Hallie Gaitsch, Hoifung Poon, Nancy J Cox, and Andrey Rzhetsky. In Nature Genetics, August 2017. Molecularly targeted drug combinations demonstrate selective effectiveness for myeloid- and lymphoid-derived hematologic malignancies. [Paper] Stephen Kurtz et al. In Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS), July 2017. Wide-Open: accelerating public data release by automating detection of overdue datasets. [Paper] (Nature News, The Scientist, UW Today) Maxim Grechkin, Hoifung Poon, and Bill Howe. In PLOS Biology, June 2017. Cross-Sentence N-ary Relation Extraction with Graph LSTMs. [Paper, Code] Nanyun Peng, Hoifung Poon, Chris Quirk, Kristina Toutanova, and Scott Yih. In Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL), 2017. Distant Supervision for Relation Extraction beyond the Sentence Boundary. [Paper] Chris Quirk and Hoifung Poon In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Conference of the European Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL), 2017. Compositional Learning of Embeddings for Relation Paths in Knowledge Bases and Text. [Paper] Kristina Toutanova, Xi Victoria Lin, Wen-Tau Yih, Hoifung Poon, and Chris Quirk. In Proceedings of the Fifty Fourth Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2016. Representing Text for Joint Embedding of Text and Knowledge Bases. [Paper] Kristina Toutanova, Danqi Chen, Patrick Pantel, Hoifung Poon, Pallavi Choudhury, and Michael Gamon. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2015. Model Selection for Type-Supervised Learning with application to POS Tagging. [Paper] Kristina Toutanova, Waleed Ammar, Pallavi Chourdhury, and Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the SIGNLL Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL), 2015. Grounded Semantic Parsing for Complex Knowledge Extraction. [Paper] Ankur Parikh; Hoifung Poon; Kristina Toutanova In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL), 2015. Distant Supervision for Cancer Pathway Extraction from Text. [Paper] Hoifung Poon, Kristina Toutanova, and Chris Quirk In Proceedings of the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 2015. Literome: PubMed-Scale Genomic Knowledge Base in the Cloud. [Paper] Hoifung Poon, Chris Quirk, Charlie DeZiel, and David Heckerman Bioinformatics 2014; doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu383 Grounded Unsupervised Semantic Parsing. [Paper] Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the Fifty First Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2013. Probabilistic Frame Induction. [Paper] Jackie Cheung, Hoifung Poon and Lucy Vanderwende. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL), 2013. An Exhaustive Epistatic SNP Association Analysis on Expanded Wellcome Trust Data. [Paper] Christoph Lippert, Jennifer Listgarten, Robert Davidson, Scott Baxter, Hoifung Poon, Carl M. Kadie, David Heckerman. In Scientific Reports, 2013, doi:10.1038/srep01099. Sum-Product Networks: A New Deep Architecture. [Paper] [Slides] [Download code and results] Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Seventh Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence, (UAI), 2011. Best Paper Award Unsupervised Ontology Induction from Text. [Paper] Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. In Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2010. Joint Inference for Knowledge Extraction from Biomedical Literature. [Paper] Hoifung Poon and Lucy Vanderwende. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics Human Language Technologies Conference (NAACL-HLT), 2010. Unsupervised Semantic Parsing. [Paper] [Slides] [Download data and code] Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2009. Best Paper Award Unsupervised Morphological Segmentation with Log-Linear Models. [Paper] Hoifung Poon, Colin Cherry, and Kristina Toutanova. In Proceedings of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics Human Language Technologies Conference (NAACL-HLT), 2009. Best Paper Award Language ID in the Context of Harvesting Language Data off the Web. [Paper] Fei Xia, William Lewis, and Hoifung Poon. In Proceedings of the Conference of European Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL), 2009. Joint Unsupervised Coreference Resolution with Markov Logic. [Paper] Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2008. A General Method for Reducing the Complexity of Relational Inference and its Application to MCMC. [Paper] Hoifung Poon, Pedro Domingos, and Marc Sumner. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Third AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2008. Markov Logic. [Book Chapter] Pedro Domingos, Stanley Kok, Daniel Lowd, Hoifung Poon, Matthew Richardson, Parag Singla. In L. De Raedt, P. Frasconi, K. Kersting and S. Muggleton (eds.), Probabilistic Inductive Logic Programming, 2008. Joint Inference in Information Extraction. [Paper] [Online Appendix] Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Second National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2007. Sound and Efficient Inference with Probabilistic and Deterministic Dependencies. [Paper] Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos. In Proceedings of the Twenty-First National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2006. Unifying Logical and Statistical AI. [Paper] Pedro Domingos, Stanley Kok, Hoifung Poon, Matthew Richardson, Parag Singla. In Proceedings of the Twenty-First National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2006. Invited paper. Research areas Artificial intelligence Human language technologies Medical, health and genomics Research groups Biomedical NLP Group Contact hoifung@microsoft.com LinkedIn Google Scholar Follow us: Follow on Twitter Like on Facebook Subscribe on Youtube Follow on Instagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Share this page: Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Share on Reddit What's new Surface Pro 8 Surface Laptop Studio Surface Pro X Surface Go 3 Surface Duo 2 Surface Pro 7+ Windows 11 apps HoloLens 2 Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Virtual workshops and training Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Office for students Office 365 for schools Deals for students & parents Microsoft Azure in education Enterprise Azure AppSource Automotive Government Healthcare Manufacturing Financial services Retail Developer Microsoft Visual Studio Windows Dev Center Developer Center Microsoft developer program Channel 9 Microsoft 365 Dev Center Microsoft 365 Developer Program Microsoft Garage Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Security Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco About our ads Microsoft 2021 English Franais English
