William Stafford Noble | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education http://www.uwmedicine.org Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Unleash the potential for information to improve biomedicine, health and education. Toggle navigation Main Menu About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education > All BIME Core & Extended Faculty > William Stafford Noble William Stafford Noble, PhD Professor, Genome Sciences Adjunct Professor, Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Adjunct Professor, Computer Science and Engineering Adjunct Professor, Medicine wnoble@uw.edu Website Interests: Development and application of machine learning and statistical methods for interpreting complex biological data sets Background: William Stafford Noble (formerly William Noble Grundy) received the Ph.D. in computer science and cognitive science from UC San Diego in 1998. After a one-year postdoc with David Haussler at UC Santa Cruz, he became an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Columbia University. In 2002, he joined the faculty of the Department of Genome Sciences at the University of Washington. His research group develops and applies statistical and machine learning techniques for modeling and understanding biological processes at the molecular level. Noble is the recipient of an NSF CAREER award and is a Sloan Research Fellow. Research: Research in the Noble lab focuses on the development and application of machine learning and statistical methods for interpreting complex biological data sets. The lab tends to work on research problems that involve fundamental problems in biology while also pushing the state of the art in machine learning. Currently, the labs research can be roughly divided into two areas. Chromatin and gene regulation. We use motif-based hidden Markov models to characterize collections of transcription factor binding sites in genomic DNA. We also develop models that predict properties of chromatin from genomic DNA. Analysis of mass spectrometry data. In collaboration with Michael MacCosss lab, we have developed a series of machine learning and statistical methods for the analysis of shotgun proteomics data. In this field, we continue to work on protein identification and quantification, targeted proteomics, and biomarker discovery. Representative publications: Duan Z, Andronescu M, Schutz K, McIlwain S, Kim YG, Lee C, Shendure J, Fields S, Blau CA, Noble WS. A three-dimensional model of the yeast genome. Nature 2010;465:363-367. Serang O, MacCoss MJ, Noble WS. Efficient marginalization to compute protein posterior probabilities from shotgun mass spectrometry data. Journal of Proteome Research 2010;9(10):5346-5357. Bailey TL, Boden M, Buske FA, Frith M, Grant CE, Clementi L, Ren J, Li WW, Noble WS. MEME Suite: tools for motif discovery and searching. Nucleic Acids Research 2009;37(Web server issue):W202-208. Kll L, Canterbury J, Weston J, Noble WS, MacCoss MJ. Semi-supervised learning for peptide identification from shotgun proteomics datasets. Nature Methods 2007;4(11):923-925. Main Sidebar Contact Us About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Site Map Upcoming Events UW Medicine Copyright 2021 | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education University of Washington
