Daniel Masys | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education http://www.uwmedicine.org Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Unleash the potential for information to improve biomedicine, health and education. Toggle navigation Main Menu About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education > All BIME Core & Extended Faculty > Daniel Masys Daniel Masys, MD, FACMI Affiliate Professor, Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education dmasys@uw.edu Website Interests: Development of informatics infrastructure for conducting clinical and translational research, and genome-phenome correlation using phenotype data derived from electronic medical records data Background: Dr. Daniel R. Masys is Affiliate (volunteer) Professor, Biomedical and Heath Informatics. He joined BIME after retiring as Professor and Chair of the Department of Biomedical Informatics and Professor of Medicine at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in 2011. An honors graduate of Princeton University and the Ohio State University College of Medicine, he completed postgraduate training in Internal Medicine, Hematology and Medical Oncology at the University of California, San Diego, and the Naval Regional Medical Center, San Diego.He served as Chief of the International Cancer Research Data Bank of the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, and was also Director of the Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications, which is a computer research and development division of the National Library of Medicine. He also served as Director of Biomedical Informatics at the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, Director of the UCSD Human Research Protections Program, and Professor of Medicine. Dr. Masys is an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine (formerly the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences). He is a Diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine in Medicine, Hematology, and Medical Oncology. He is a Fellow of the American College of Physicians, and Fellow and Past President of the American College of Medical Informatics. Research: Dr. Masysprofessional interests include development of informatics infrastructure for conducting clinical and translational research, genome-phenome correlation using phenotype data derived from electronic medical records data, and approaches to incorporating genomic data effectively into clinical systems. Dr. Masysis not accepting new Masters or PhD students at this time. Representative publications: Masys DR. Electronic Health Records and Genomic Medicine. Chapter 9 in Ginsburg GS, Willard HF (eds.) Genomic and Precision Medicine, Third Edition: Foundations, Translation, and Implementation. Elsevier Academic Press. 2017. ISBN-13: 978-0128006818. Riley WT, Nilsen WJ, Manolio TA, Masys DR, Lauer M. News from the NIH: potential contributions of the behavioral and social sciences to the precision medicine initiative. Transl Behav Med. 2015 Sep;5(3):243-6. Malinowski JR, Denny JC, Bielinski SJ, Basford MA, Bradford Y, Peissig PL, Carrell D, Crosslin DR, Pathak J, Rasmussen L, Pacheco J, Kho A, Newton KM, Li R, Kullo IJ, Chute CG, Chisholm RL, Jarvik GP, Larson EB, McCarty CA, Masys DR, Roden DM, de Andrade M, Ritchie MD, Crawford DC. Genetic Variants Associated with Serum Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) Levels in European Americans and African Americans from the eMERGE Network. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 1;9(12):e111301. Denny JC, Bastarache L, Ritchie MD, Carroll RJ, Zink R, Mosley JD, Field JR, Pulley JM, Ramirez AH, Bowton E, Basford MA, Carrell DS, Peissig PL, Kho AN, Pacheco JA, Rasmussen LV, Crosslin DR, Crane PK, Pathak J, Bielinski SJ, Pendergrass SA, Xu H, Hindorff LA, Li R, Manolio TA, Chute CG, Chisholm RL, Larson EB, Jarvik GP, Brilliant MH, McCarty CA, Kullo IJ, Haines JL, Crawford DC, Masys DR, Roden DM. Systematic comparison of phenome-wide association study of electronic medical record data and genome-wide association study data. Nat Biotechnol. 2013 Nov 24;31(12):1102-1111. Oetjens MT, Denny JC, Ritchie MD, Gillani NB, Richardson DM, Restrepo NA, Pulley JM, Dilks HH, Basford MA, Bowton E, Masys DR, Wilke RA, Roden DM, Crawford DC. Assessment of a pharmacogenomic marker panel in a polypharmacy population identified from electronic medical records. Pharmacogenomics. 2013 May;14(7):735-44. Masys DR, Harris PA, Fearn PA, Kohane IS, Designing a public square for research computing. Sci. Transl. Med. 4, 149fs32 (August 2012). Masys DR, Jarvik GP, Abernethy NF, Anderson NR, Papanicolaou GJ, Paltoo DN, Hoffman MA, Kohane IS, Levy HP. Technical desiderata for the integration of genomic data into Electronic Health Records. J Biomed Inform. 2011 Dec 27. Main Sidebar Contact Us About Us Overview of Department Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education Committees News & Events People People Overview Faculty Administration & Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Educational Programs Educational Programs Overview Research Masters Research PhD Data Science Specialization Research Postdoc Clinical Informatics Fellowship Teaching Scholars Faculty Development Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Research Research Overview BIME Research Projects BIME Faculty Research Projects Research at UW Service & Practice Service & Practice Overview Clinical Informatics Analytics Research Informatics and IT Precision Medicine Center for Scholarship in Patient Care Quality and Safety Curricular Design Course and Curriculum Evaluation Center for Leadership and Innovation in Medical Education Teaching Scholars Teaching Scholars Program Overview TSP People TSP Curriculum TSP Admissions Current Students Student Resource Overview Graduate Student Resources Student Focused Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources MS Coursework Requirements & Policies PhD Coursework Requirements & Policies Postdoc Coursework Requirements Curriculum Current BHI Colloquia Course Descriptions Current Student Listings Become a Student Application Overview for All Programs Educational Programs Overview MS & PhD Admission Requirements Apply to MS, PhD MS & PhD Funding and Tuition MS & PhD FAQ Apply to Post-doctoral Program Online Master of Science in Clinical Informatics & Patient-Centered Technologies MS Program Apply to Clinical Informatics Fellowship Open Positions Division of Medical Education and Evaluation Division of Biomedical Health Informatics Alumni Alumni Overview Graduated Students Make a Gift Site Map Upcoming Events UW Medicine Copyright 2021 | Biomedical Informatics and Medical Education University of Washington
