Job Openings | Civil and Environmental Engineering Skip to main content Faculty DirectoryCornell EngineeringApplyVisitGive to EngineeringIndustry Partners HomeProgramsCoursesGraduate ProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsResearchCivil InfrastructureEnvironmental EngineeringEngineering Systems and ManagementCEE Sponsored AwardsPeopleFacultyExecutive LeadershipStaff DirectoryAdvisory CouncilGrad StudentsGraduate Field FacultyNAE MembersJob OpeningsFacilitiesBovay Laboratory ComplexClass of 1949 Electronic ClassroomDeFrees Hydraulics LabEnvironmental Teaching LabEnvironmental Fluid Mechanics Teaching LaboratoryEnvironmental Processes LaboratoriesAlumniCEE UPDATE NewslettersGiving OpportunitiesRecruit StudentsClass NotesClass PhotosAlumni SpotlightsCEE Reunion 2021ResourcesAcademic SupportDiversity & InclusionMental Health ResourcesExperience and EmploymentGrad Services and ActivitiesUndergrad Services and ActivitiesStudent Organizations Open the search panel Menu Search Close Job OpeningsCheck here for updates of position openings.View Job OpeningsNavigation Heading for Screen ReadersPeopleJob OpeningsShare:Current Job OpeningsCyber-Physical Systems for Smart-City InfrastructureCornells School of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in the area of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) as part of a new strategic initiative in Smart Cities.We are seeking an individual who is making transformative advancements in how sensor networks, actuators, and analytics are brought to bear on modern infrastructure systems with an eye toward providing a more intelligent, equitable, sustainable, and resilient allocation of limited resources. The successful applicant will be expected to: Conduct an internationally recognized and well-funded research program. Contribute to fundamental advances of CPS architectures for smart city applications in one or more of the following areas: sensor development and novel deployment, control of smart and distributed infrastructure systems, artificial intelligence models and methods, decision systems with humans in the loop, and infrastructure system resilience. Foster cross-disciplinary engagements that develop transformative research and education initiativesfor example, with colleagues working in sensor development, robotics, control, sustainability, risk, and urban systems. Design new undergraduate and graduate courses related to CPS and infrastructure systems design and performance.The position is open at all ranks; salary and rank will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. It is anticipated the successful candidate will begin in Summer 2022, although alternative arrangements can be made. The candidate will also contribute to undergraduate and graduate teaching in the CEE School. The successful applicant will have the opportunity to interact with faculty and students within the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, the College of Engineering, and the Cornell Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future. The School of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell embraces diversity and seeks candidates who will contribute to a climate that supports students, faculty and staff of all identities and backgrounds. Candidates from minoritized and historically underrepresented groups in engineering are strongly encouraged to apply.Application materials must be submitted on-line at https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/19431Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled. Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae and three brief statements (1-2 pages per statement): (1) a research statement, (2) a teaching statement, and (3) a statement of contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Candidates are encouraged to review Cornell Universitys guidance for writing DEI statementshere. In addition to the statements, candidates should include a copy of their three most significant publications, and provide contact information for at least three references. Questions can be directed to cee_search@cornell.eduWith our main campus located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell's far-flung global presence includes the medical college's campuses on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and Doha, Qatar, as well as the Cornell Tech campus located on Roosevelt Island in the heart of New York City. We offer a rich array of services, programs and benefits to help employees advance in their career and enhance the quality of personal life, including employee wellness, workshops, childcare and adoption assistance, parental leave and flexible work options.Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell Universitys heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. Cornell University is an innovative Ivy League university and a great place to work. Our inclusive community of scholars, students, and staff impart an uncommon sense of larger purpose, and contribute creative ideas to further the university's mission of teaching, discovery, and engagement.Post-Doc Research Opportunity in Smart and Healthy Communities at Cornell UniversityUrban Technology, Digital Twin, and the Sustainability Business--Technology, Infrastructure, and Software Platform for Smart and Healthy CommunitiesThe Cornell University Transportation and Environment/Energy Systems (CUTES) research group invites applications from outstanding researchers for a post-doctoral research position in the area of Urban Technology, Digital Twin, and the Sustainability Business--Technology, Infrastructure, and Software Platform for Smart and Healthy Communities. The successful candidate will work as part of the multi-disciplinary team of CUTES research on urban technology, digital twin and software development, infrastructure investment and asset management optimization, and infrastructure finance/policy for smart and healthy communities. The CUTES group is a cross-disciplinary research team that takes innovative systems informatics-analytics approaches to solving urban infrastructure and its associated environment/health/economics and management problems. The CUTES research group brings together a world-class interdisciplinary team to model the whole-of-life performance of urban technology, transportation/infrastructure, and complexity of the interdependency between the built and natural environments. The research team combines social scientists with researchers in engineering and complex systems simulation: the Group involves faculty and grad/undergrad students from Civil and Environmental Engineering, Statistics, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Applied Economics and Management, and Systems Engineering. The CUTES Research Group has a successful history in the nexus of urban transportation and environment/energy systems research and is involved in several large-scale interdisciplinary projects in economic/environmental impact assessment such as transportation emissions and air pollution/public health in New York City. Our research seeks to combine fundamental theoretical investigations with serious applications including the modeling and development of efficient systems for extracting and processing information. We aim at developing theoretical models, hybrid numerical approaches, computational algorithms, integrated software platforms, and ultimately policy insights and practical guidelines for managing the interactions among urban technologies, infrastructure and environment networks, and consumers and communities. Major ResponsibilitiesThis appointment is an opportunity for a researcher with proven ability in developing complex systems analytics models, urban technology and digital twin, software and platform development, optimization methods, and computational tools for real-world problems in Urban Technology, Transportation/Infrastructure Economics, and the Sustainability Business. Experience in transportation/infrastructure economics and finance, software systems engineering, network science, information, decision and complex networks, computational and infrastructure intelligence, dynamic data driven application systems, science of information computation and fusion, or modeling multi-layer infrastructure networks is desirable. An appetite for interdisciplinary collaboration is required, and active participation in research projects and leading a group of highly motivated Ph.D. students is expected. Example research areas/activities include:Data analytics, visualization and science; hybrid-models using big data and simulation models; hierarchical networks of distributed and cloud computing. Mathematical and probabilistic models, hybrid numerical approaches, computational algorithms, and integrated software platforms for modeling and managing the interactions among urban technology, infrastructure networks, and users (e.g., infrastructure facility and operations management, physical asset management, maintenance and reliability analysis, infrastructure network design and planning) Abstract modeling paradigms based on complex network theory and approximated network models, risk analysis methods, and a combination of simulation and advanced machine-learning techniques for Urban Technology, Transportation/Infrastructure Economics, and the Sustainability Business. Performance-based engineering and economics of infrastructure systemoperation and management of vital regional/urban technology, transportation, and infrastructure systems, quantification of greenhouse gas (GHG) and other pollutant emissions from infrastructure systems, impacts on economics and public health (Environmental Risk assessment and management, Resource efficiency in infrastructure systems).Complex systems architectural design framework, combined with optimization models, taking into account the system of interest and its environment in modeling policy problems. Understanding of and support for the management of interdependent urban infrastructure systems, especially in the framework of life cycle management optimization. The models developed in the research will be embedded in computer-based decision aids. Such computer-based decision support is intended to assist decision makers in policy design and optimization for sustainable/resilient infrastructure and the underlying business model.Revenue and Finance: Modeling and mechanism design of alternative financing options (e.g., public private partnership (PPP)) for sustainable infrastructure and environment (Infrastructure financing and business models, Life cycle cost optimization, Infrastructure supply chain management, Contract and project management, Infrastructure policy) QualificationsThe research will be undertaken in the group of Prof. H. Oliver Gao. The appointment will be served within the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell University in Ithaca NY, with potential interactions with other Cornell units including: Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future (ACSF, http://www.acsf.cornell.edu/), Cornell NYC Tech (http://tech.cornell.edu/), Cornell Program in Infrastructure Policy (CPIP https://www.human.cornell.edu/pam/research/cpip/home), and Cornell Institute of Public Affairs (CIPA, http://www.cipa.cornell.edu/), etc. Applicants for this position are expected to have excellent economic modeling, data analytics and computational skills and/or hands-on experience on the modeling of urban technology, infrastructure systems and networks. We are looking for highly motivated, committed, and creative individuals, able to work in a team and with good communication skills. Working in a top-level research environment, the candidate will have a unique opportunity to develop further their research abilities.The candidate must hold a Ph.D. degree with top performance in a field that is closely related to transportation/infrastructure networks and economics, mathematical modeling, control theory, economics and finance for complex systems. Candidates with an earned (or soon-to-be-earned) doctoral degree in Economics and finance, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Operations Research, Computer Science, or other relevant disciplines will be considered, provided their strong research track record. He or she should have a track record in conducting original highly competitive scientific research and publishing the results in top conferences and scientific journals. Maturity, self-motivation and the ability to work both independently and as a team player in local and international research teams are expected. Relevant experience could also include systems and network architecture, big data management, decentralized or distributed control. Ability to initiate new research collaborations, work in a team and be open for the application of results is important. To apply: Application materials must be submitted on-line through AcademicJobsOnline at https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/18763Through this web site, applicants are to submit a cover letter, curriculum vitaeinclude a complete list of publications, a research statement, 2-3 publications relevant to the topic, undergraduate and graduate transcripts and complete contact information for no fewer than three references. Questions can be directed to cee_search@cornell.edu Review of applications will start immediately and continue until the position is filled. Start date can be as soon as the identified candidate becomes available. Initial appointment will be for one year, with possible extensions. The School of Civil and Environmental Engineering and the College of Engineering at Cornell embrace diversity and seek candidates who can contribute to a welcoming climate for students of all races and genders. Diversity and inclusion are a part of Cornell Universitys heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and Individuals with Disabilities. Risk-Based Transformation Of Critical Infrastructure SystemsCornells School of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in the area of risk as related to infrastructure and the environment. We are seeking an individual who is innovating the theory and practice of risk, resilience, and sustainability in the face of climate change and the interdependence of our critical infrastructure systems. The successful applicant will be expected to:Conduct an internationally recognized and well-funded research program.Contribute to fundamental advances in risk analysis as well as in one or more of the following areas: decision making under uncertainty, artificial intelligence, data analytics, and large-scale data assimilation.Advance our understanding of the social, physical, and environmental factors influencing adaptive transformations of critical societal infrastructures.Innovate the design, operation, and planning of infrastructure systems under uncertainty.Foster cross-disciplinary engagements that develop transformative research and education initiatives.Contribute to fundamental advances in risk analysis as well as in one or more of the following areas: decision making under uncertainty, artificial intelligence, data analytics, and large-scale data assimilation.Design new undergraduate and graduate courses related to risk analysis and its connection to other potential topics such as emerging computational analytics, climate change driven extreme events, or planning for infrastructure transformations.The position is anticipated to be filled at the Assistant Professor level, although exceptional Associate or Full Professor level candidates are welcome. It is anticipated the successful candidate will begin in August 2022, although alternative arrangements can be made. The candidate will also contribute to undergraduate and graduate teaching in the CEE School. The successful applicant will have the opportunity to interact with faculty and students within the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, the College of Engineering, and the Cornell Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future.Salary and rank will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled.To apply: Application materials must be submitted on-line athttps://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/18245Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae and three brief statements (1-2 pages per statement): (1) a research statement, (2) a teaching statement, and (3) a statement of contributions to diversity. Candidates are encouraged to review Cornell Universitys guidance for writing diversity statements as well as their evaluation (here). In addition to the statements, candidates should include a copy of their most significant single publication, and list the full contact information for three references in their application letter.With our main campus located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell's far-flung global presence includes the medical college's campuses on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and Doha, Qatar, as well as the Cornell Tech campus located on Roosevelt Island in the heart of New York City. We offer a rich array of services, programs and benefits to help employees advance in their career and enhance the quality of personal life, including employee wellness, workshops, childcare and adoption assistance, parental leave and flexible work options.Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell Universitys heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. Cornell University is an innovative Ivy League university and a great place to work. Our inclusive community of scholars, students, and staff impart an uncommon sense of larger purpose, and contribute creative ideas to further the university's mission of teaching, discovery, and engagement.The School of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell embraces diversity and seeks candidates who will contribute to a climate that supports students, faculty and staff of all identities and backgrounds. We strongly encourage individuals from underrepresented identities to apply. About UsNewsEventsSpotlightsContact UsDirections and MapsCEE IntranetAdmissions:607 255-5008DEPT Address:220 Hollister Hall Ithaca, NY 14853Connect with usFacebookTwitterInstagramYoutubeLinkedInCopyright 2021 Cornell University All rights reserved.Web Accessibility Assistance
