Caltech Mechanical and Civil Engineering | Jos E. Andrade Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search options MCE Caltech Department of Mechanical and Civil Engineering About Overview Visit Us Student Organizations Gates Thomas Positions Available Contact Us People Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars External Advisory Board Staff Graduate Students Alumni Academics Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Admissions Student Information Course Descriptions Course Schedule Research Research Centers & Initiatives Facilities TEDxCaltech Seminars DEI News & Events Resources Contact Visit Us Contact Us Get Involved Faculty, Executive Officer Jos E. Andrade George W. Housner Professor of Civil and Mechanical Engineering; Cecil and Sally Drinkward Leadership Chair, Department of Mechanical and Civil Engineering; Executive Officer for Mechanical and Civil Engineering Degrees and Appointments B.S., Florida Institute of Technology, 2001; M.S., Stanford University, 2003; PhD, 2006. Assistant Professor, Caltech, 2010; Associate Professor, 2010-13; Professor, 2013-17; Housner Professor, 2017-; Drinkward Leadership Chair, Department of Mechanical and Civil Engineering, 2017-; Executive Officer, 2016-. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Jennifer Campbell 350 Gates-Thomas Laboratory (626) 395-3389 jenni@caltech.edu Research Group Website Personal Website Research Overview Professor Andrade's research focuses on developing a fundamental understanding of the multiscale and multiphysical behaviors of porous materialseverything from soils, rocks, and concrete to bone. He also studies the behavior of granular materials like sand, snow, and even grain stored in silos. His research has particular applications to geologic and engineering infrastructure materials, as well as to the petroleum industry. List of Research Areas granular materials, geomechanics, carbon sequestration, multiscale modeling MCE News about Jos E. Andrade The Science of Underground Kingdoms Material Inspired by Chain Mail Transforms from Flexible to Rigid on Command Nailing It: Caltech Engineers Help Show That InSight Lander Probe Can Hammer Itself Into Martian Soil Read more news about Jos E. Andrade Is this your profile? People Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars External Advisory Board Staff Graduate Students Alumni Distinguished Alumni Graduate Alumni Contact Us Learn More Research Academics Visit Us Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Course Descriptions Is the ME Shop open? For Our Department Community Portal Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 104-44, Pasadena, CA 91125 2021 Caltech. All rights reserved. Privacy Notice. Feedback? back to top
