Caltech Mechanical and Civil Engineering | Nadia Lapusta Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search options MCE Caltech Department of Mechanical and Civil Engineering About Overview Visit Us Student Organizations Gates Thomas Positions Available Contact Us People Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars External Advisory Board Staff Graduate Students Alumni Academics Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Admissions Student Information Course Descriptions Course Schedule Research Research Centers & Initiatives Facilities TEDxCaltech Seminars DEI News & Events Resources Contact Visit Us Contact Us Get Involved Faculty, Option Representative (GP) Nadia Lapusta Lawrence A. Hanson, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Geophysics Degrees and Appointments Dipl., Kiev State University, 1994; M.S., Harvard University, 1996; Ph.D., 2001. Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Caltech, 2002-03; Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Geophysics, 2003-08; Associate Professor, 2008-10; Professor, 2010-19; Hanson Professor, 2019-. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Carolina Oseguera 362 Gates-Thomas Laboratory (626) 395-4271 susta@caltech.edu Research Group Website Research Overview Professor Lapusta studies friction and fracture phenomena on both fundamental and practical levels. Her work focuses on analytical and numerical modeling that incorporates and explains experimental findings. She has a special interest in failure of geomaterials in the presence of fluids, physics of earthquakes, and induced seismicity, where frictional faulting and cracking are key ingredients. List of Research Areas Fracture and frictional processes, computational mechanics, failure of geomaterials in the presence of fluids, physics of earthquakes, induced seismicity MCE News about Nadia Lapusta Winners of the 2021 Demetriades - Tsafka - Kokkalis Prizes Announced Untangling the Heat Paradox Along Major Faults Nadia Lapusta Elected Fellow of AGU Read more news about Nadia Lapusta Is this your profile? People Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers & Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars External Advisory Board Staff Graduate Students Alumni Distinguished Alumni Graduate Alumni Contact Us Learn More Research Academics Visit Us Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Course Descriptions Is the ME Shop open? For Our Department Community Portal Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 104-44, Pasadena, CA 91125 2021 Caltech. All rights reserved. Privacy Notice. Feedback? back to top
