Maria Bonn Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Virtual Visit Give a Gift Course Login Wiki University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Block I logo School of Information Sciences Menu Visit What is an iSchool? Request Information Upcoming Events Tuition & Financial Support Recruitment & Admissions Staff iSchool Ambassadors Degrees & Programs BS in Information Sciences MS in Bioinformatics MS in Information Management MS in Library and Information Science MS/LIS Joint Degrees School Librarian Licensure PhD in Information Sciences Certificate of Advanced Study Continuing Education Advising Course Catalog People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Staff Committees School Directory Research Areas Projects Vision Services Showcase Research Fellows Scholars-in-Residence Videos Engage Hire an Intern or Full-Time Employee Host a Practicum Mentor a Student Give a Gift Business Intelligence Group Alumni Student Life Academic Support Center Student Development Opportunities Student Organizations Convocation Practicum & Career Courses Career Support Student Affairs Staff Help Desk News & Events News Feed Events Calendar Publications Upcoming Events Lectures Awards Our School iSchool Response to COVID-19 iSchool at a Glance History Data and Reporting Building Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Job Openings Contact Us Search Search this website People In This Section Home People Maria Bonn Maria Bonn Maria Bonn CV Associate Professor, MS/LIS and CAS Program Director PhD, American Literature, SUNY Buffalo Room 4125, 614 E. Daniel St. mbonn@illinois.edu Research focus Publishing, scholarly communication, networked communication, the economics of information, open culture, and next generation librarianship. Honors and Awards 2004 Selected participant in the Center for Education of Women Advanced Leadership Seminar 2005 Scholarship winner, Bear River Writers Conference 2005 University Library Faculty Achievement Award Biography Maria Bonn teaches courses on academic librarianship and the role of libraries in scholarly communication and publishing. Prior to her teaching appointment, Bonn served as the associate university librarian for publishing at the University of Michigan Library, with responsibility for publishing and scholarly communications initiatives, including Michigan Publishing. Bonn has also been an assistant professor of English at institutions both in the United States and abroad. She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester, master's and doctoral degrees in American literature from SUNY Buffalo, and a master's in information and library science from the University of Michigan. Office hours By appointment, please contact professor Publications & Papers Maria Bonn and Michael Furlough, eds Getting the Word Out: Academic Libraries as Scholarly Publishers. ACRL Publications in Librarianship, 2015. A Report on the PEAK Experiment: Usage and Economic Behavior, with Wendy P. Lougee, Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason, and Juan F. Riveros. D-Lib Magazine, Vol 5., no. 7/8 (July/August 1999). Benchmarking Conversion Costs: A Report from the Making of America IV Project. RLG Diginews. October 2001. A Case Study in Library Based Scholarly Publishing: The University of Michigan Librarys Scholarly Publishing Office. New Review of Information Networking. Spring 2003. Publishing, Libraries, Publishers and Librarians: Shared Passions and Complementary Skills. Against the Grain, January 2015. pp. 20-21. Community-Led Teaching and Learning: Designing an Open Educational Resource for Scholarly Communication and Legal Issues. With Joshua Bolick and Will Cross. Against The Grain, September, 2017. Pp. 23-24. Free exchange of ideas: Experimenting with the open access monograph. College and Research Library News. September 2010. Tooling up: Scholarly communication education and training. College and Research Library News, March 2014. Maximizing the benefits of open access: Strategies for enhancing the discovery of open access content. College and Research Library News, October 2015. Computation, corpus, community: The HathiTrust Research Center today. College and Research Library News, April 2016. Collaborating and communicating: Humanities scholars working and talking together. College & Research Libraries News [Online], 78.4 (2017) May 2017. 206-209 Presentations Intangible Cultural Heritage: A Call for Research. ASIS&T Annual Meeting. Copenhagen, Denmark, October 18, 2016. You Set the Scene: Three Faculty-Centered Approaches to Digital Publishing from Mellons 2015-16 Scholarly Communication Initiative. Charleston Library Conference, Charleston, SC. Nov. 4, 2016. Humanities Collaboration and Research Practices. A Marketplace of Ideas session at the National Humanities Alliance annual conference, Salt Lake City, Utah. November 11, 2016. Megan Senseney, LaTesha Velez, Christopher R. Maden, Janet Swatscheno, Maria Bonn, Harriett Green, Katrina Fenlon . Informing Library-Based Digital Publishing: A Survey of Scholars Needs in a Contemporary Publishing Environment). Digital Humanities conference. Montreal, Canada. August, 2017. Harriett Elizabeth Green, Megan Senseney, Maria Bonn. Collaborations in the Global Midwest: The Diffusion of DH Values in Research Collaborations in the Humanities Without. Digital Humanities conference. Montreal, Canada. August, 2017. What Do Those Scholars Want, Anyway? Understanding the needs of scholars in a contemporary publishing environment. Charleston Library Conference, Charleston, SC. Nov. 9, 2017. Joshua Bolick, William Cross, Maria Bonn. Walking the Walk for Open Pedagogy: Community Design of a Shared Open Educational Resource about Scholarly Communication for Librarians and Learners. Open Education Conference, Anaheim California, October 12, 2017 What Do They Want Anyway? : Understanding the needs of scholars in a contemporary publishing environment. Researcher To Reader, 2018. London, U.K., February 27, 2018. Joshua Bolick, William Cross, Maria Bonn. Soup from a Stone: Collective Development of Open Educational Resources that Welcome Underrepresented Voices to Scholarly Communication. The Collective. Knoxville, TN. March 1, 2108. Collective Development of Open Educational Resources in Scholarly Communication . Session for Interaction and engagement. iConference 2018. Sheffield, U.K. March 26, 2018. Completed Research Projects Designing OERs to Prepare the Next Generation of Scholarly Communication Librarians Preserving Intangible Cultural Heritage In the News iSchool well represented at ASIS&T 2021 October 27 2021 Bonn and Twidale explore the concept of informated food September 9 2021 Bonn elected ASIS&T director-at-large August 2 2021 Bonn to discuss Scholarly Communication Notebook at OE Global 2020 November 19 2020 Bonn and alumni receive LPC Award for Outstanding Scholarship in Library Publishing May 6 2020 Bonn and colleagues receive IMLS grant for Scholarly Communications Notebook July 11 2019 iSchool names new MS program directors May 2 2019 Bonn to discuss scholarly communication at ACRL 2019 April 10 2019 Bonn to present research at NFAIS 2019 Humanities Roundtable March 7 2019 Five from iSchool to speak at Charleston Conference November 5 2018 Research Areas: Digital Humanities Education of Information Professionals Libraries and Librarianship People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Staff Committees School Directory Back to top University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School of Information Sciences 501 E. Daniel St. MC-493 Champaign, IL 61820-6211 Voice (217) 333-3280 Fax (217) 244-3302 ischool@illinois.edu quick links School Directory Virtual Visit Give a Gift Course Login iSchool Wiki IS Virtual Library campus resources Privacy Notice Campus Directory Graduate College University Library University of Illinois 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Settings
