Bertram Ludscher Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Virtual Visit Give a Gift Course Login Wiki University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Block I logo School of Information Sciences Menu Visit What is an iSchool? Request Information Upcoming Events Tuition & Financial Support Recruitment & Admissions Staff iSchool Ambassadors Degrees & Programs BS in Information Sciences MS in Bioinformatics MS in Information Management MS in Library and Information Science MS/LIS Joint Degrees School Librarian Licensure PhD in Information Sciences Certificate of Advanced Study Continuing Education Advising Course Catalog People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Staff Committees School Directory Research Areas Projects Vision Services Showcase Research Fellows Scholars-in-Residence Videos Engage Hire an Intern or Full-Time Employee Host a Practicum Mentor a Student Give a Gift Business Intelligence Group Alumni Student Life Academic Support Center Student Development Opportunities Student Organizations Convocation Practicum & Career Courses Career Support Student Affairs Staff Help Desk News & Events News Feed Events Calendar Publications Upcoming Events Lectures Awards Our School iSchool Response to COVID-19 iSchool at a Glance History Data and Reporting Building Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Job Openings Contact Us Search Search this website People In This Section Home People Bertram Ludscher Bertram Ludscher Bertram Ludscher CV Professor and Director, Center for Informatics Research in Science and Scholarship PhD, Computer Science, University of Freiburg Room 5100, 614 E. Daniel St. ludaesch@illinois.edu Other professional appointments Faculty Affiliate, Department of Computer Science Faculty Affiliate, National Center for Supercomputing Applications Research focus Data and knowledge management, specifically the modeling, design, and optimization of scientific workflows, provenance, data integration, and knowledge representation; scientific workflow systems; data curation. Honors and Awards Best paper award at ProvenanceWeek 2018 for "Validation and Inference of Schema-Level Workflow Data-Dependency Annotations" Listed on the Google Scholar Classic Papers list for "Software Systems" Biography Bertram Ludscher is a leading figure in data and knowledge management, focusing on the modeling, design, and optimization of scientific workflows, provenance, data integration, and knowledge representation. He is one of the founders of the open source Kepler scientific workflow system project and a co-lead of the DataONE Working Group on Provenance in Scientific Workflows. Ludscher also develops workflow technology for quality control and data curation; e.g., of biodiversity data in natural history collections. He leads the NSF-funded Euler project, where he is developing logic-based methods for the alignment and merging of biological taxonomies. In addition to his appointment as a professor at the iSchool, Ludscher holds an appointment at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) and an affiliate appointment at the Department of Computer Science. Before coming to Illinois in Fall 2014, Ludscher was a professor at the Department of Computer Science and the Genome Center at the University of California, Davis. He previously worked at the San Diego Supercomputer Center at UC San Diego where until 2004 he was an associate research scientist, leading the Knowledge-Based Information Systems Lab. He received his MS in computer science from the Technical University of Karlsruhe in 1992 and his PhD in computer science from the University of Freiburg in 1998. Office hours By appointment, please contact professor Publications & Papers B. Ludscher, N. Podhorszki, I. Altintas, S. Bowers, T. McPhillips, From Computation Models to Models of Provenance: The RWS Approach, Concurrency and Computation: Practice & Experience, special issue on the First Provenance Challenge, 2007. T. M. McPhillips, S. Bowers, D. Zinn, and B. Ludscher. Scientific Workflow Design for Mere Mortals. Future Generation Computer Systems (FGCS), 25(5):541551, 2009. S. Bowers and B. Ludscher. An Ontology Driven Framework for Data Transformation in Scientific Workflows. In International Workshop on Data Integration in the Life Sciences (DILS), LNCS 2994, Leipzig, Germany, March 2004. A. Brinckman, K. Chard, N. Gaffney, M. Hategan, M. B. Jones, K. Kowalik, S. Kulasekaran, B. Ludscher, B. D. Mecum, J. Nabrzyski, V. Stodden, I. J. Taylor, M. J. Turk, and K. Turner. Computing Environments for Reproducibility: Capturing the "Whole Tale."Future Generation Computer Systems, February 2018 S. Lee, S. Kohler, B. Ludscher, and B. Glavic. A SQL-Middleware Unifying Why and Why-Not Provenance for First-Order Queries. In ICDE, pp. 485496. IEEE Computer Society, 2017. T. McPhillips, T. Song, T. Kolisnik, S. Aulenbach, K. Belhajjame, K. Bocinsky, Y. Cao, J. Cheney, F. Chirigati, S. Dey, J. Freire, C. Jones, J. Hanken, K. W. Kintigh, T. A. Kohler, D. Koop, J. A. Macklin, P. Missier, M. Schildhauer, C. Schwalm, Y. Wei, M. Bieda, and B. Ludscher. YesWorkflow: A User-Oriented, Language- Independent Tool for Recovering Workflow Information from Scripts. International Journal of Digital Curation (IJDC), 10(1):298313, 2015. Y.-Y. Cheng, N. Franz, J. Schneider, S. Yu, T. Rodenhausen, and B. Ludscher. Agreeing to disagree: Reconciling conflicting taxonomic views using a logic-based approach. Proceedings of the Association for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&T), 54(1):4656, 2017. N. M. Franz, N. M. Pier, D. M. Reeder, M. Chen, S. Yu, P. Kianmajd, S. Bowers, and B. Ludscher. Two Influential Primate Classifications Logically Aligned. Systematic Biology, 65(4):561582, July 2016. N. M. Franz, M. Chen, S. Yu, P. Kianmajd, S. Bowers, and B. Ludscher. Reasoning over Taxonomic Change: Exploring Alignments for the Perelleschus Use Case. PLoS ONE, 10(2):134, February 2015. S. Kohler, B. Ludscher, and D. Zinn. First-Order Provenance Games. In In Search of Elegance in the Theory and Practice of Computation. Essays Dedicated to Peter Buneman, volume 8000 of LNCS, pp. 382399. Springer, 2013. Preprint arxiv.org/abs/1309.2655 Presentations Slides of presentations Active Research Projects RIDIR: Collaborative Research: Developing and Deploying SKOPE - A Resource for Synthesizing Knowledge of Past Environments The Whole Tale Completed Research Projects Collaborative Research: ABI Development: Kurator: A Provenance-enabled Workflow Platform and Toolkit to Curate Biodiversity Data DataONE (Observation Network for Earth) National Forum Data Mining Research Using In Copyright and Limited Access Text Datasets Shaping a Research and Implementation Agenda for Researchers Libraries and Content Providers In the News New CIRSS series to focus on responsible data science and AI August 19 2021 iSchool participation in iConference 2021 March 16 2021 Ludscher to present keynote at reusable research webinar February 9 2021 iSchool well represented at ASIS&T 2020 October 21 2020 iSchool researchers present at ro2019 September 24 2019 Ludscher Lab to present research at Philadelphia Logic Week May 31 2019 iSchool to make strong showing at iConference 2019 March 28 2019 Uni High students advance their research with iSchool faculty March 1 2019 Ludscher to deliver keynote at ProvenanceWeek 2018 July 6 2018 iSchool coordinates IMLS-funded forum on data mining research April 16 2018 Research Areas: Data Analytics and Human Centered Data Data Curation Design and Evaluation of Information Systems and Services Foundations of Information Health, Medical, and Bio-Informatics Organization of Knowledge and Information Science of Science Social and Information Networks People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Staff Committees School Directory Back to top University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School of Information Sciences 501 E. Daniel St. MC-493 Champaign, IL 61820-6211 Voice (217) 333-3280 Fax (217) 244-3302 ischool@illinois.edu quick links School Directory Virtual Visit Give a Gift Course Login iSchool Wiki IS Virtual Library campus resources Privacy Notice Campus Directory Graduate College University Library University of Illinois 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Settings
