Saxena Professorship | Chemical Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Chemical Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admissions Accreditation Career Success ChemE Major ChemE Minor ChemE for Pre-Med Courses Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses China 3+2 Program MS Program PhD Program PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Groups Student Resources Research Expand Research menu Research Areas Labs Research Experiences for Undergraduates Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Advisory Board Saxena Professorship Faculty Awards Faculty Resources Staff Open Positions News Expand News menu Press Mentions News Stories Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Chemical Engineering College of Engineering View Menu Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Chemical Engineering Faculty and Staff Saxena Professorship Saxena Professorship intro text The late Dr. Satish Saxena, left, pictured here with Department Head Vikas Berry and a rendering of what is now our new Engineering Innovation Building. The Satish Saxena Professorship in Chemical Engineering honors Dr. Satish Saxena, a pioneer, mentor, guide, friend, and colleague who died in 2018. His work helped the UIC Department of Chemical Engineeringand the discipline more broadlyto grow by leaps and bounds. Dr. Saxena made invaluable contributions to our department, to the scientific community, to his students, and to his profession. Dr. Saxenas intellectual inquisitiveness and scholastic capacity led to a distinguished academic career that started with a PhD from Calcutta University, India, at the young age of 23. This was soon followed by research positions at Maryland, Yale, Columbia, and Bhabha Atomic Research Center, India, where he performed pioneering studies in the field of atomic science. He joined the physics faculty at Rajasthan University in India for a few years, after which he accepted a position as a physics professor at Purdue University, where he worked in the Thermophysical Properties Research Center. In 1968, he took a position at the University of Illinois at Chicago as a professor and director of the Multiphase Reactor Research Laboratory. For several years, he served as head of the department, which at the time was called the Department of Energy Engineering. His groundbreaking work led to the revolutionizing of several multiphase catalytic reactors that are operational in the chemical industry. Our department and its students will continue to benefit from our Satish Saxena Library, the Satish Saxena Distinguished Lecture series, and now the Satish Saxena Professor in Chemical Engineering, named in his honor. Dr. Saxena addressed national and global challenges by consulting with NASA, the Department of Energy, and numerous Fortune 500 companies. He received wide recognition for his work and expertise. During his distinguished career of more than 30 years at UIC, Dr. Saxena applied fundamental science to engineering to change the way we think about the discipline. During his lifetime, he published five books, 25 book chapters, and more than 532 papers. He mentored and supervised more than 20 postdocs, 22 newly minted PhDs, and 57 MS students, and he taught several thousand other students. Dr. Saxena left a multifaceted mark of distinction on UIC, inspiring several generations who carry forward his leadership and vision in their lives and careers. For more information, please contact: Vikas Berry Professor and Department Head Phone: (312) 996-2342 Email: vikasb@uic.edu View Profile Faculty and Staff Back to main content Department Head Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Advisory Board Saxena Professorship Faculty Awards Faculty Resources Staff Open Positions Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources Open Positions ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts Linked In Twitter Instagram Contact Department of Chemical Engineering Phone: (312) 996-3424 Fax: (312) 996-0808 cheuic@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
