Department Head | Chemical Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Chemical Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admissions Accreditation Career Success ChemE Major ChemE Minor ChemE for Pre-Med Courses Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses China 3+2 Program MS Program PhD Program PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Groups Student Resources Research Expand Research menu Research Areas Labs Research Experiences for Undergraduates Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Advisory Board Saxena Professorship Faculty Awards Faculty Resources Staff Open Positions News Expand News menu Press Mentions News Stories Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Chemical Engineering College of Engineering View Menu Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Chemical Engineering Faculty and Staff Department Head Department Head bio Vikas Berry, professor and head of UICs Department of Chemical Engineering, received his PhD in chemical engineering from Virginia Tech in 2006. He obtained his masters degree from the University of Kansas in 2003 and his bachelors degree from the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi in 1999. During Berrys tenure as head, which started in 2015, the department has transformed in several ways. In 2019, the department moved to the new, state-of-the-art Engineering Innovation Building, which features 40 percent more research space, a modern classroom annexed to the unit-operations lab, learning spaces spread throughout the building, vibration-dampened nanotechnology labs, biomedical research rooms, a darkroom, and molecular engineering research labs. Since 2015, the department faculty has doubled in size. Research expenditures have increased by 150 percent, and the number of journal publications has doubled. Graduate enrollment has increased by 20 percent. The department also has initiated new international programs (China 3+2 and MAP) and has thoroughly upgraded its curriculum to add new concentrations in polymer and molecular engineering, process simulations, nanotechnology, energy and environment, and intellectual property and entrepreneurship. In his research career, Berry has made pioneering contributions in the fields of graphene quantum materials and bio/nano technologies. He has earned many honors, including the NSF-CAREER Award in 2011, the Sigma Xi Outstanding Junior Scientist Award in 2010, the Big 12 Fellowship in 2009, and a chaired-professorship appointment (the William H. Honstead Professorship at Kansas State University) from 2012 to 2014. His work on graphene biointerfaces is considered a nodal point in the evolution of graphenes biological applications. Berry is a member of the editorial board of Scientific Reports(Nature Publishing Group) and the Journal of Nanoscience Letters. Research results from Berrys group have been published in several high-impact journals, including Nature Photonics, Nature Communications, Nano Letters, Advanced Materials,and Small, and have been featured in Nature, Science News, Washington Post, The Economist,theWall Street Journal, Discover, Chemical Engineering Progress, and Physics World,among other news outlets. Berrys research is funded by the NSF, DoD, and industry. contact Vikas Berry Professor and Department Head Phone: (312) 996-2342 Email: vikasb@uic.edu View Profile Faculty and Staff Back to main content Department Head Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Advisory Board Saxena Professorship Faculty Awards Faculty Resources Staff Open Positions Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources Open Positions ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts Linked In Twitter Instagram Contact Department of Chemical Engineering Phone: (312) 996-3424 Fax: (312) 996-0808 cheuic@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
