Edmund Yeh - Northeastern University College of Engineering Skip Navigation Northeastern University College of Engineering Search Submit Search Request InformationVisitApplyGiving Find Faculty & Staff Info For Toggle Info Return to Menu Menu Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Partnerships Press Search Open Search Close Search Northeastern University College of Engineering About Message from the DeanCollege LeadershipQuick FactsDiversity and InclusionAccreditationFaculty & Staff DirectoryContact UsAcademics & Experiential Learning Academic ProgramsAcademic DepartmentsUndergraduate StudiesGraduate School of EngineeringBusiness, Entrepreneurship and LeadershipCo-op & Experiential LearningClubs & OrganizationsResearch Research Centers & InstitutesResearch InitiativesResearch FacilitiesPublications & PatentsIndustry PartnershipStudent ResearchFaculty Faculty & Staff DirectoryHonors & DistinctionsScholarship ReportsFaculty HiringNews & Events NewsEventsIn the MediaSpotlight StoriesMagazines Home / Edmund Yeh Download Edmund Yeh Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringContacteyeh@ece.neu.edu413 ISEC360 Huntington Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02115Social Media youtube googlescholar Office617.373.5400LabISECRelated Links Faculty WebsiteResearch FocusNetworking and systems for data-intensive engineering, science, health applications; caching, fog/edge computing, networked distributed learning; wireless network optimization, coding for low latency, network coding, polar codes; interdependent networks, cascading failure, information dissemination; network economics. Biography Research Publications Related News Toggle Accordion Biography AboutEdmund Yeh received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering with Distinction and Phi Beta Kappa from Stanford University in 1994. He then studied at Cambridge University on the Winston Churchill Scholarship, obtaining his M.Phil in Engineering in 1995. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT under Professor Robert Gallager in 2001.He is currently Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Northeastern University, with a Khoury College of Computer Sciences courtesy appointment. He was previously Assistant and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, and Statistics at Yale University. Prof. Yeh has held visiting positions at MIT, Stanford, Princeton, University of California at Berkeley, New York University, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL), and Technical University of Munich. He has been on the technical staff at the Mathematical Sciences Research Center, Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, at the Signal Processing Research Department, AT&T Bell Laboratories, and at the Space and Communications Group, Hughes Electronics Corporation.Prof. Yeh has led and participated in funded research projects worth more than $38 million, supported by NSF, DARPA, AFOSR, ARO, DTRA, Cisco, Intel, American Tower, and Raytheon. He served as a PI for the $7.9 million NSF Future Internet Architecture (FIA) grant which launched the Named Data Networking (NDN) project. He served as a PI for the $10 million industry-collaborative DARPA Dispersed Computing (DCOMP) Generalized Network Assisted Transport (GNAT) project. He serves as the lead PI for the $1 million NSF CC* SDN-Assisted NDN for Data Intensive Experiments (SANDIE) and the $875K CC* NDN for Data-Intensive Science Experiments (N-DISE) projects. Prof. Yeh serves as a co-PI for the $6.1 million Platforms for Advanced Wireless Research (PAWR) Project Office, which collaborates with NSF and industry partners to accelerate fundamental research on wireless communication and networking technologies by establishing and overseeing multiple city-scale testing platforms across the U.S. Prof. Yeh has also served as co-PI on two NSF Critical Resilient Interdependent Infrastructure Systems and Processes (CRISP) Type 2 projects, each worth $2.5 million.Professor Yeh is an IEEE Communications Society Distinguished Lecturer for 2021-2022. He is the recipient of the Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellowship and the Army Research Office Young Investigator Award. He has received three Best Paper Awards: at IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC) 2015, at ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN) 2017, and at IEEE International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future Networks (ICUFN) 2012. Prof. Yeh is the recipient of the Winston Churchill Scholarship, the National Science Foundation and Office of Naval Research Graduate Fellowships, the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, the Frederick Emmons Terman Engineering Scholastic Award, and Stanford University Presidents Award for Academic Excellence.Professor Yeh serves as Technical Program Committee Co-Chair for ACM MobiHoc 2021, and served as General Chair for ACM SIGMETRICS 2020. He has served as both Treasurer and Secretary of the Board of Governors of the IEEE Information Theory Society. He served as a Steering Committee Member for IEEE International Conference on Smart Grid Communications (SmartGridComm) and as General Co-Chair for ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN) 2018. Professor Yeh has served as Chair of the U.S. National Academies Panel on Review of the In-house Laboratory Independent Research in Network Sciences at the Armys Research, Development, and Engineering Centers (RDECs). He also served on the U.S. National Academies Panel on Review of the Information Technology Laboratory at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).Professor Yeh serves as the inaugural Area Editor in Networking and Computation for IEEE Transactions on Information Theory. He has served as Associate Editor for IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, and IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. He served as the Guest Editor-in-Chief of the Special Issue on Wireless Networks for Internet Mathematics, and a Guest Editor of the Special Series on Smart Grid Communications for IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications.Professor Yeh is a frequent speaker, serving as plenary lecturer and panelist, and giving more than 110 invited talks at leading institutions worldwide. He has interacted extensively with industry, serving as PI on grants from Cisco, Intel, American Tower, and Raytheon, andserving as consultant to Verizon Wireless. He is also actively involved in exploring the societal impact of technology, serving asFaculty Fellow of the Internet Society Project at Yale Law School.EducationB.S. Electrical Engineering (with Distinction and Phi Beta Kappa), Stanford UniversityM.Phil. Engineering (Winston Churchill Scholar), Cambridge University, UKPh.D. Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, MITHonors & AwardsAlexander von Humboldt Research FellowshipIEEE Communications Society Distinguished LecturerArmy Research Office Young Investigator AwardBest Paper Award, IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), 2015Best Paper Award, ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN), 2017Best Paper Award, IEEE International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future Networks (ICUFN), 2012Faculty Research Team Award, 2017Professional AffiliationsSeniorMember ofIEEE, Phi Beta Kappa,TauBeta Pi,New YorkAcademyof SciencesFaculty Fellow,YaleLawSchoolInformation Society Project (ISP) Toggle Accordion Research Research OverviewNetworking and systems for data-intensive engineering, science, health applications; caching, fog/edge computing, networked distributed learning; wireless network optimization, coding for low latency, network coding, polar codes; interdependent networks, cascading failure, information dissemination; network economics.Selected Research ProjectsCNS Core: Medium: Data-Centric Networks for Distributed Learning Co-Principal Investigator, National Science FoundationCC* Integration-Large: N-DISE: NDN for Data Intensive Science Experiments Principal Investigator, National Science FoundationGeneralized Network Assisted Transport (GNAT) Principal Investigator, Defense Advanced Research Projects AgencyJoint Optimization of Routing and Caching in Wireless Heterogeneous Networks Principal Investigator, Intel CorporationSDN-Assisted NDN for Data Intensive Experiments Principal Investigator, National Science FoundationResearch Centers and InstitutesInstitute for the Wireless Internet of ThingsInstitute for Experiential AIGlobal Resilience InstituteInstitute of Information AssuranceCollege Research Initiatives Critical Infrastructure Sustainability and Security link Integrated Modeling, Inference, and Computing link Department Research Areas Communications, Control & Signal Processing Computer Networks and Security Computer Systems and Software Computer Vision, Machine Learning, and Algorithms Toggle Accordion Publications Selected PublicationsDirk Bergemann, Edmund Yeh, and Jinkun Zhang, Nonlinear Pricing with Finite Information.Games and Economic Behavior.Vol. 130, November 2021, pp. 62-84.Armin Moharrer, Khashayar Kamran, Edmund Yeh and Stratis Ioannidis, Robust Regression via Model Based Methods. Proceedings of the European Conference on Machine Learning and Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases (ECML-PKDD), September 13-17, 2021.Yuezhou Liu, Alireza Alizadeh, Mai Vu and Edmund Yeh, Joint User Association and Caching in Wireless Heterogeneous Networks with Backhaul. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), June 14-23, 2021.Khashayar Kamran, Armin Moharrer, Stratis Ioannidis, and Edmund Yeh, Rate Allocation and Content Placement in Cache Networks. Proceedings of the Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM), May 10-13, 2021.Bahman Abolhassani, John Tadrous, Atilla Eryilmaz, and Edmund Yeh, Fresh Caching for Dynamic Content. Proceedings of the Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM), May 10-13, 2021.Yuezhou Liu, Yuanyuan Li, Qian Ma, Stratis Ioannidis and Edmund Yeh, Fair Caching Networks. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Computer Performance, Modeling, Measurements and Evaluation (IFIP Performance), November 2-6, 2020.Milad Mahdian, Armin Moharrer, Stratis Ioannidis, and Edmund Yeh, Kelly Cache Networks. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking. Vol. 28, No. 3, June 2020, pp. 1130-1143.Khashayar Kamran, Edmund Yeh, and Qian Ma, DECO: Joint Computation, Forwarding and Data Placement in Data-Centric Computing Networks. Proceedings of ACM International Symposium on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing (MobiHoc) 2019.Qian Ma, Edmund Yeh, and Jianwei Huang, How Bad is Selfish Caching? Proceedings of ACM International Symposium on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing (MobiHoc) 2019.Jianan Zhang, Edmund Yeh, and Eytan Modiano, Robustness of Interdependent Random Geometric Networks. IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. Vol. 6, No. 3, July-Sept. 2019, pp. 474-487.Derya Malak, Muriel Medard, and Edmund Yeh, Tiny Codes for Guaranteeable Delay. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications. Vol. 37, No. 4, April 2019, pp. 809-825.Ran Liu, Edmund Yeh, and Atilla Eryilmaz, Proactive Caching for Low Access-Delay Services under Uncertain Predictions. Proceedings of the ACM on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems SIGMETRICS. Vol. 3, No. 1, March 2019, Article No. 2.Ying Cui, Muriel Medard, Edmund Yeh, Douglas Leith, and Ken Duffy, Optimization-Based Linear Network Coding for General Connections of Continuous Flows. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking. Vol. 26, No. 5, October 2018, pp. 2033-2047.Stratis Ioannidis and Edmund Yeh, Jointly Optimal Routing and Caching for Arbitrary Network Topologies. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications. Vol. 36, No. 6, June 2018, pp. 1258-1275.Stratis Ioannidis and Edmund Yeh, Adaptive Caching Networks with Optimality Guarantees. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking. Vol. 26, No. 2, April 2018, pp. 737-750.Susmit Shannigrahi, Christos Papadopoulos, Edmund Yeh, Harvey Newman, Artur Jerzy Barczyk, Ran Liu, Alex Sim, Inder Monga, Jean-Roch Vlimant, and John Wu, Named Data Networking in Climate Research and HEP Applications. Proceedings of the International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physic (CHEP), April 13-17, 2015.Edmund M. Yeh, Tracey Ho, Ying Cui, Michael Burd, Ran Liu, and Derek Leong, VIP: A Framework for Joint Dynamic Forwarding and Caching in Named Data Networks. Proceedings of ACM Conference on Information-Centric Networking (ICN), September 24-26, 2014, pp. 117-126.Eren Sasoglu, Emre Telatar, and Edmund M. Yeh, Polar Codes for the Two-user Multiple-access Channel. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 59, No. 10, October 2013, pp. 6583-6592.Dirk Bergemann, Ji Shen, Yun Xu, and Edmund M. Yeh, Multi-Dimensional Mechanism Design with Limited Information. Proceedings of ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce (EC) 2012, pp. 162-178.Zhenning Kong and Edmund M. Yeh, Resilience to Degree-dependent and Cascading Node Failures in Random Geometric Networks. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 56, No. 11, November 2010, pp. 5533-5546.Lixia Zhang, Deborah Estrin, Jeff Burke, Van Jacobson, James Thornton, Diana Smetters, Beichuan Zhang, Gene Tsudik, Dan Massey, Christos Papadopoulos, Tarek Abdelzaher, Lan Wang, Patrick Crowley, and Edmund Yeh. Named Data Networking (NDN) Project. Technical Report ndn-0001, PARC, October 31, 2010.Yufang Xi and Edmund M. Yeh. Node-Based Optimal Distributed Power Control, Routing, and Congestion Control in Wireless Networks. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 54, No. 9, September 2008, pp. 4081-4106.Zhenning Kong and Edmund M. Yeh, On the Latency for Information Dissemination in Mobile Wireless Networks. Proceedings of ACM International Symposium on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing (MobiHoc), May 26-30, 2008, pp. 139-148.Edmund M. Yeh and Randall A. Berry, Throughput Optimal Control of Cooperative Relay Networks. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 53(10), 2007, pp. 3827-3833Ming Cao, Daniel A. Spielman and Edmund M. Yeh, Accelerated Gossip Algorithms for Distributed Computation. Proceedings of the Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing. Monticello, IL, September 27-29, 2006, pp. 952-959.Randall A. Berry and Edmund M. Yeh, Cross-Layer Wireless Resource Allocation. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 21(5), 2004, pp. 59-68Edmund M. Yeh and Aaron S. Cohen, Throughput and Delay Optimal Resource Allocation in Multiaccess Fading Channels. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) 2003, p. 245Anand Bedekar, Sem Borst, Kavita Ramanan, Philip Whiting, Edmund Yeh, Downlink Scheduling in CDMA Data Networks. Global Telecommunications Conference 1999, pp. 2653-2657 Toggle Accordion Related News FacultySep 07, 2021Yeh Pioneers Application of Information Theory to Mechanism Design in MicroeconomicsECE Professor Edmund Yeh and Jinkun Zhang, PhD22, in collaboration with Dirk Bergemann, Douglass and Marion Campbell Professor of Economics at Yale University, has published the paper titled Nonlinear Pricing with Finite Information in the November 2021 issue of Games and Economic Behavior, a leading journal on game theory and economics. The paper is one [] FacultyJul 19, 2021Yeh Named Inaugural Area Editor for IEEE Transactions on Information TheoryECE Professor Edmund Yeh has been named the inaugural Area Editor in Networking and Computation for IEEE Transactions on Information Theory. TheIEEE Transactions on Information Theoryis a leading journal that publishes theoretical and experimental papers concerned with the transmission, processing, and utilization of information. FacultyJul 13, 2021Pioneering a Data-Centric Approach to Distributed Machine LearningECE Associate Professor Stratis Ioannidis and ECE Professor Edmund Yeh, in collaboration with ECE Professor Carlee Joe-Wong from Carnegie Mellon University, have been awarded a $1M grant from the NSF to pioneer a data-centric approach to distributed machine learning. FacultyJan 06, 2021Yeh named IEEE Distinguished LecturerECE Professor Edmund Yeh has been named IEEE Communications Society Distinguished Lecturer for 2021-2022. Professor Yeh will deliver lectures on topics including data-centric network architectures, optimal caching, edge computing, wireless network optimization, and data-intensive science and engineering. FacultyDec 14, 2020Yeh to serve on Board of Governors of IEEE Information Theory SocietyECE Professor Edmund Yeh will serve as a voting member of the Board of Governors of IEEE Information Theory Society in the role of Treasurer, starting in January 2021. FacultyAug 21, 2020Yeh Leads New Initiative to Build Advanced Data Ecosystems for High Energy Physics and GenomicsECE Professor Edmund Yeh is leading an $875K two-year NSF grant multi-university research initiative for CC* Integration-Large: N-DISE: NDN for Data Intensive Science Experiments in collaboration with California Institute of Technology, the University of California at Los Angeles, and Tennessee Technological University. FacultyJul 10, 2020Prof. Edmund Yeh Speaks at Brown UniversityECE Professor Edmund Yeh gave a Data Science Initiative Special Seminar at Brown University about recent developments in data-centric network architectures and algorithms, and their application to large-scale data-intensive science networks and 5G wireless edge networks. FacultyJul 10, 2020Northeastern Leads Organization of ACM SIGMETRICS 2020Northeastern University recently led the organization of ACM SIGMETRICS 2020, which is the flagship conference of the ACM in the area of performance analysis of computer systems, and the development of tools and innovative application of tools towards this end. FacultyJan 03, 2020Yeh Awarded Patent for High Performing NDN NetworksECE Professor Edmund Yeh was awarded a patent for creating a system and method for joint dynamic forwarding and caching in content distribution networks. FacultyDec 02, 2019Networking for Big Data: Landmark SC19 Demo Shows High-Performance Delivery of Large Hadron Collider (LHC) Data with NDNThe multi-university (Northeastern, Caltech, and Colorado State) research SANDIE team led by ECE Professor Edmund Yeh has finished a landmark demo at SC19 in Denver. View All Related News Northeastern University College of Engineering Connect with COE facebook twitter instagram linkedin youtube Social Media Directory
