John H Weaver | Materials Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Safety My.MatSE Give University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About Metrics and Statistics MatSE at Illinois Explore MatSE Rankings Student Experiences Courses Visit the Campus Employment Opportunities Admissions Ready to join a top ranked materials department in the nation? Start here Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Program Brochure How to Apply Metrics and Statistics (PDF) Scholarships and Financial Aid Careers Graduate Admissions Graduate Program Brochure How to Apply Deadlines Frequently Asked Questions Academics Have questions about the MatSE curriculum? Undergrad FAQ Graduate FAQ Academics Undergraduate Programs Technical Electives MatSE Minor Polymer Science and Engineering Minor Curriculum Biomaterials Curriculum Map Technical Electives Suggested Course Sequence Focus Areas Junior Labs Topical Lectures Advising Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Research Student Societies Student Outcomes Undergraduate Laboratories Graduate Programs Degree Requirements Ph.D. Degree Requirements M.S. Graduate Courses Course Guide: MS Course Guide: PhD Graduate Exams Graduate Exams: Qualification, Preliminary, and Final Fellowships and Awards Graduate Handbook Graduate Program Forms Advising Mentoring Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Research RESEARCH MatSE faculty and students at the University of Illinois are making significant discoveries that will change the world, including self-healing materials such as polymer coatings that protect materials from the effects of environmental exposure. Research accomplishments Research Materials for Energy and the Environment Materials for Medicine Mechanical Properties and Materials for Extreme Conditions Nanoscale Science and Technology Facilities Safety Diversity News Finding a big community in a small major Maddie Weller is a senior at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign's Department of Materials Science and Engineering. Weller shares how MatSE's tight-knit community helped her step out of her comfort zone and into a leading role as the president of the Material Advantage student group. Read Full Story News | December 7, 2021 News MATERIAL 2020 Magazine MatSE Calendar Upcoming Seminars Outreach Alumni Questions about corporate, alumni, or hiring our students? Learn more Alumni Alumni Association Board Awards Alumni Awards - Loyalty Alumni Distinguished Merit Awards Alumni Young Alumnus Award Winners Engage Students Hiring MatSE Students Senior Design Projects Give Ways to Give People Outstanding MatSE People People All Faculty Department Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Lecturers Emeritus Faculty Staff Staff Listing Service Areas and Offices HomePeople John H Weaver John H Weaver Professor Emeritus jhweaver@illinois.edu 262 Materials Research Lab Biography Professor Weaver received his B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Missouri in 1967 and his Ph.D. in Solid State Physics from Iowa State University/Ames Laboratory USDOE in 1972. He was on the staff of the Synchrotron Radiation Center at the University of Wisconsin-Madison until 1982 when he moved to the University of Minnesota. He joined the faculty of the University of Illinois in 2000, and served as head of the Department of Materials Science and Engineering until 2003. Weaver is a Fellow of the APS, the AVS and the AAAS. In 1994-95 he held the Amundson Professorship at Minnesota and an Alexander von Humboldt Senior Distinguished U.S. Scientist Award to work at the Fritz-Haber-Institut in Berlin. He was also a University Professor at Tohoku University. In 1995 he was awarded the Royal Society Kan Tong Po Professorship at the University of Hong Kong. Research & Development Magazine named him their Scientist of the Year in 1997, and Iowa State University recognized him with its Distinguished Achievement Citation in 1998. In 1999, he was Chief Judge for Singapore's National Science Talent Search, and he received the Medard W. Welch Award of the American Vacuum Society ["for his seminal contributions to the atomic-level understanding of thin-film growth, interfacial interactions and etching"]. He gave the Peter Winchell Lecture at Purdue University in 2000 and the Kodak Distinguished Lecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 2003. He was named the Donald B. Willett Professor at the University of Illinois in 2003. Weaver's research activities focus on the physics and chemistry of surfaces, interfaces, and nanostructures. He is the author of ~475 refereed papers, including 21 chapters and monographs on valence state photoemission, metal/semiconductor interfaces, high temperature superconductors, fullerenes, semiconductor etching, nanostructured materials and buffer-layer-assisted growth. Research Statement Research in WeaverLabs focuses on the properties of surfaces, interfaces and nanostructured materials. The atoms in these systems can be arranged differently from those of bulk materials, and there are unique chemical and physical properties because of their reduced dimensionality. We are interested in the implications of those atomic arrangements. With high resolution scanning tunneling microscopy, we can visualize (and then develop an understanding of) surfaces and nanostructures in real space, often as they evolve dynamically at elevated temperature or are immobilized at very low temperature. Using a novel growth technique that we developed, buffer-layer-assisted growth or BLAG, we produce nanostructures of a wide range of materials and explore their interactions when they come into contact, coalesce and are encorporated in composite structures. Electron microscopy plays an important role in these studies. Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Make a Gift Materials Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 201 Materials Science and Engineering Building 1304 W. Green St. MC 246 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1441 | F: (217) 333-2736 matse@illinois.edu Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
