Daniel P. Shoemaker | Materials Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Safety My.MatSE Give University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About Metrics and Statistics MatSE at Illinois Explore MatSE Rankings Student Experiences Courses Visit the Campus Employment Opportunities Admissions Ready to join a top ranked materials department in the nation? Start here Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Program Brochure How to Apply Metrics and Statistics (PDF) Scholarships and Financial Aid Careers Graduate Admissions Graduate Program Brochure How to Apply Deadlines Frequently Asked Questions Academics Have questions about the MatSE curriculum? Undergrad FAQ Graduate FAQ Academics Undergraduate Programs Technical Electives MatSE Minor Polymer Science and Engineering Minor Curriculum Biomaterials Curriculum Map Technical Electives Suggested Course Sequence Focus Areas Junior Labs Topical Lectures Advising Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Research Student Societies Student Outcomes Undergraduate Laboratories Graduate Programs Degree Requirements Ph.D. Degree Requirements M.S. Graduate Courses Course Guide: MS Course Guide: PhD Graduate Exams Graduate Exams: Qualification, Preliminary, and Final Fellowships and Awards Graduate Handbook Graduate Program Forms Advising Mentoring Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Research RESEARCH MatSE faculty and students at the University of Illinois are making significant discoveries that will change the world, including self-healing materials such as polymer coatings that protect materials from the effects of environmental exposure. Research accomplishments Research Materials for Energy and the Environment Materials for Medicine Mechanical Properties and Materials for Extreme Conditions Nanoscale Science and Technology Facilities Safety Diversity News Finding a big community in a small major Maddie Weller is a senior at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign's Department of Materials Science and Engineering. Weller shares how MatSE's tight-knit community helped her step out of her comfort zone and into a leading role as the president of the Material Advantage student group. Read Full Story News | December 7, 2021 News MATERIAL 2020 Magazine MatSE Calendar Upcoming Seminars Outreach Alumni Questions about corporate, alumni, or hiring our students? Learn more Alumni Alumni Association Board Awards Alumni Awards - Loyalty Alumni Distinguished Merit Awards Alumni Young Alumnus Award Winners Engage Students Hiring MatSE Students Senior Design Projects Give Ways to Give People Outstanding MatSE People People All Faculty Department Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Lecturers Emeritus Faculty Staff Staff Listing Service Areas and Offices HomePeople Daniel P. Shoemaker Daniel P. Shoemaker Associate Professor and Racheff Faculty Scholar (217) 244-4991 dpshoema@illinois.edu 1017 Superconductivity Center For more information Shoemaker research group page Professional Highlights Professor Daniel P. Shoemaker received his BS with Honors in Materials Science and Engineering from the University of Illinois in 2006 and his PhD in Materials from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 2010. His doctoral work focused on using neutron scattering and real-space modeling to understand the structure-property relationships of disordered magnetic and electronic oxides. In 2011 he began a postdoctoral appointment in the Materials Science Division of Argonne National Laboratory where he investigated the synthesis of superconductors and semiconductors with a focus on in situ spectroscopy and x-ray diffraction. Shoemaker joined the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign as an Assistant Professor in August 2013. Research Statement Our group focuses on synthesizing new inorganic materials and uncovering routes to engineer their response to electronic, magnetic, and chemical stimuli. Understanding synthesis allows us to use chemistry to tune, alter, or reassemble materials. We grow single crystals, microstructured composites, and nanomaterials, and make heavy use of electronic, magnetic, and optical measurements. Current research topics include: In situ synthesis: Many arenas of energy conversion, such as light absorbers, batteries, and catalysis, are limited by the library of viable materials. We use special growth cells to observe metastable synthesis reactions as they happen in the solid, liquid, and gas phase. These reactions produce new compounds that are inaccessible from a traditional approach based on equilibrium phase diagrams. X-ray diffraction and optical spectroscopy can reveal how compounds form and identify new materials on the fly. We also develop computational tools to handle the complex data collected during any given experiment. Micro- and nano-structured magnetism: Performance of magnetic materials is dictated by complex interactions on multiple length scales, from micron-sized domains to the angstrom-level exchange interactions between atoms. We synthesize magnetic materials and develop tools for characterizing and modeling their defects, inclusions, and microstructure. Understanding these relationships allows us to refine our syntheses, improve performance, and uncover new candidate materials. Structure and dynamics of correlated materials: During our investigations of superconductors, dielectrics, and phase-change materials, intriguing physical phenomena arise when materials deviate from their ideal structure due to formation of defects or disordered domains. We conduct high-energy X-ray and neutron scattering experiments at the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory and the Lujan Neutron Scattering Center at Los Alamos National Laboratory. Scattering and spectroscopy allow us to reconstruct structural snapshots of disordered materials and understand how chemical bonding dictates magnetic and electronic properties. Research Areas Ceramics Electronic Materials Metals Research Topics Materials for Energy and the Environment Research Honors Materials Research Society Graduate Student Gold Award (2010) 23rd Louis Rosen Thesis Prize - Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (2011) Recent Courses Taught MSE 403 - Synthesis of Materials MSE 405 - Microstructure Determination MSE 406 - Thermal-Mech Behavior of Matls MSE 529 - Hard Materials Seminar Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Make a Gift Materials Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 201 Materials Science and Engineering Building 1304 W. Green St. MC 246 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1441 | F: (217) 333-2736 matse@illinois.edu Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
