David Cahill | Materials Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Safety My.MatSE Give University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About Metrics and Statistics MatSE at Illinois Explore MatSE Rankings Student Experiences Courses Visit the Campus Employment Opportunities Admissions Ready to join a top ranked materials department in the nation? Start here Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Program Brochure How to Apply Metrics and Statistics (PDF) Scholarships and Financial Aid Careers Graduate Admissions Graduate Program Brochure How to Apply Deadlines Frequently Asked Questions Academics Have questions about the MatSE curriculum? Undergrad FAQ Graduate FAQ Academics Undergraduate Programs Technical Electives MatSE Minor Polymer Science and Engineering Minor Curriculum Biomaterials Curriculum Map Technical Electives Suggested Course Sequence Focus Areas Junior Labs Topical Lectures Advising Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Research Student Societies Student Outcomes Undergraduate Laboratories Graduate Programs Degree Requirements Ph.D. Degree Requirements M.S. Graduate Courses Course Guide: MS Course Guide: PhD Graduate Exams Graduate Exams: Qualification, Preliminary, and Final Fellowships and Awards Graduate Handbook Graduate Program Forms Advising Mentoring Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Research RESEARCH MatSE faculty and students at the University of Illinois are making significant discoveries that will change the world, including self-healing materials such as polymer coatings that protect materials from the effects of environmental exposure. Research accomplishments Research Materials for Energy and the Environment Materials for Medicine Mechanical Properties and Materials for Extreme Conditions Nanoscale Science and Technology Facilities Safety Diversity News Finding a big community in a small major Maddie Weller is a senior at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign's Department of Materials Science and Engineering. Weller shares how MatSE's tight-knit community helped her step out of her comfort zone and into a leading role as the president of the Material Advantage student group. Read Full Story News | December 7, 2021 News MATERIAL 2020 Magazine MatSE Calendar Upcoming Seminars Outreach Alumni Questions about corporate, alumni, or hiring our students? Learn more Alumni Alumni Association Board Awards Alumni Awards - Loyalty Alumni Distinguished Merit Awards Alumni Young Alumnus Award Winners Engage Students Hiring MatSE Students Senior Design Projects Give Ways to Give People Outstanding MatSE People People All Faculty Department Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Lecturers Emeritus Faculty Staff Staff Listing Service Areas and Offices HomePeople David Cahill David Cahill Administrative Titles Donald B. Willett Professor of Engineering Professor and Grainger Distinguished Chair in Engineering (217) 333-6753 d-cahill@illinois.edu 1022 Superconductivity Center For more information Cahill's Web page Education B.S. Engineering Physics, Ohio State University, 1984 Ph.D. Physics, Cornell University, 1989 Academic Positions Head of Department - Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois - (2010-2018) Willett Professor of Engineering. College of Engineering, University of Illinois - (2005-present) Professor - Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois - (2002-present) Associate Professor - Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois - (1997-2002) Assistant Professor - Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois - (1991-1997) Other Professional Employment Postdoctoral Research Associate, IBM Watson Research Center (1989-91) Professional Highlights David Cahill is the Grainger Distinguished Chair in Engineering and Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He joined the faculty of the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the U. Illinois after earning his Ph.D. in condensed matter physics from Cornell University, and working as a postdoctoral research associate at the IBM Watson Research Center. His current research program focuses on developing a microscopic understanding of thermal transport at the nanoscale; extremes of low and high thermal conductivity in materials; the interactions between phonons, electrons, photons, and spin; and the kinetics and thermodynamics of aqueous and electrochemical interfaces with materials. He received the 2018 Innovation in Materials Characterization Award of the Materials Research Society (MRS); the 2015 Touloukian Award of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers; the Peter Mark Memorial Award of the American Vacuum Society (AVS); and is a fellow of the MRS, AVS, APS (American Physical Society), and AAAS. Prof. Cahill received the 2020 Tau Beta Pi Daniel C. Drucker Eminent Faculty Award from the Grainger College of Engineering. Research Statement Thermal management is a critical issue in a wide variety of applications of thin films materials from state-of-the-art microprocessors to turbine engines. Heat can be carried by any excitation of the solid that is thermally excited: lattice vibrations, electrons, spin-waves. The lifetime or coherence of these excitations have a complex dependence the microstructure of materials; at nanometer length scales, the transfer of heat between various excitations at interfaces becomes the controlling factor. Our group studies the basic science of thermal transport in materials with a particular emphasis on the exchange of thermal energy at solid-solid and solid-liquid interfaces. We have recently developed new and powerful methods of characterizing nanoscale thermal transport using ultrafast laser metrology of precisely controlled thin film multilayers and suspensions of metallic nanoparticles. We are currently working to extend our experimental methods to higher resolution in time, space, and energy. Research Interests nanoscale thermal transport, GHz frequency acoustics, magnetic materials, heat and mass transport in soft materials, ultrafast magneto-optics, materials property microscopy Research Areas Ceramics Electronic Materials Metals Polymers Research Topics Materials for Energy and the Environment Nanoscale Science and Technology Selected Articles in Journals Dongyao Li, Andre Schleife, David G. Cahill, Gavin Mitchson, and David C. Johnson, "Ultralow shear modulusof incommensurate [SnSe]n[MoSe2]n layers synthesized by the method of modulated elemental reactants," Phys. Rev. Mat. 3, 043607 (2019). Qiye Zheng, Chunhua Li, Akash Rai, Jacob H. Leach, David A. Broido, David G. Cahill, "Thermal conductivity of GaN, 71GaN and SiC from 150 K to 850 K," Phys. Rev. Mat. 3, 014601 (2019). Qiye Zheng, Gaohua Zhu, Zhu Diao, Debasish Banerjee, and David G. Cahill, "High contrast thermal conductivity change in Ni-Mn-In Heusler alloys near room-temperature," Advanced Engineering Materials 21, 1801342 (2019). Jungwoo Shin, Jaeuk Sung, Minjee Kang, Xu Xie, Byeongdu Lee, Kyungmin Lee, Timothy White, Cecilia Leal, Nancy R. Sottos, Paul V. Braun and David G. Cahill, Light-triggered thermal conductivity switching in azobenzene polymers, PNAS 116, 5973-5978 (2019). Xu Xie, Jordan M. Dennison, Jungwoo Shin, Zhu Diao and David G. Cahill, Measurement of water vapor diffusion in nanoscale polymer films by frequency-domain probe beam deflection, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 89, 104904 (2018). Sheng Li, Qiye Zheng, Yinchuan Lv, Xiaoyuan Liu, Xiqu Wang, Pinshane Huang, David G. Cahill and Bing Lv, Ultrahigh thermal conductivity in cubic boron arsenide crystals, Science 361, 579-581 (2018). Hyejin Jang, Christopher R. Ryder, Joshua D. Wood, Mark C. Hersam and David G. Cahill, 3D anisotropic thermal conductivity of exfoliated rhenium disulfide, Adv. Mat. 29, 1700650 (2017). Johannes Kimling, Gyung-Min Choi, Jack T. Brangham, Tristan Matalla-Wagner, Torsten Hubner, Timo Kuschel, Fengyuan Yang and David G. Cahill, "Picosecond spin Seebeck effect," Phys. Rev. Lett. 118, 057201 (2017). Xu Xie, Kexin Yang, Dongyao Li, Tsung-Han Tsai, Jungwoo Shin, Paul V. Braun, and David G. Cahill, "High and low thermal conductivity of amorphous macromolecules," Phys. Rev. B 95, 035406 (2017). Johannes Kimling and David G. Cahill, "Spin diffusion induced by pulsed-laser heating," Phys. Rev. B 95, 014402 (2017). Jungwoo Shin, Minjee Kang, Tsunghan Tsai, Cecilia Leal, Paul V. Braun and David G. Cahill, "Thermally-functional liquid crystal networks by magnetic field driven molecular orientation," ACS Macro Letters 5, 955-960 (2016). Dongyao Li and David G. Cahill, "Attenuation of 7 GHz surface acoustic waves on silicon," Phys. Rev. B 94, 104306 (2016). Gyung-Min Choi, Byoung-Chul Min, Kyung-Jin Lee and David G. Cahill, "Thermal spin transfer torque driven by ultrafast heat flow in metallic spin-valve structures," Nature Phys., 11, 576 (2015). Johannes Kimling, R.B. Wilson, Karsten Rott, Judith Kimling, Guenter Reiss and David G. Cahill, "Spin-dependent thermal transport perpendicular to the planes of Co/Cu multilayers," Physical Review B 91, 144405 (2015). Jun Liu, Xiaojia Wang, Dongyao Li, Nelson E. Coates, Rachel A. Segalman and David G. Cahill, "Thermal conductivity and elastic constants of PEDOT:PSS with high electrical conductivity," Macromolecules 48, 585-591 (2015). Research Honors Tau Beta Pi Daniel C. Drucker Eminent Faculty Award, College of Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (2020) Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Section on Engineering (2020) Innovation in Materials Characterization Award, Materials Research Society (2018) Yeram S. Touloukian Award, ASME (2015) Fellow of the Materials Research Society (2012) Donald Bigger Willett Professor of Engineering, University of Illinois, College of Engineering (2005-present) Fellow of the American Physical Society (2005) University Scholar, University of Illinois (2000-2003) Peter Mark Memorial Award, AVS (1998) Fellow of American Vacuum Society (1998) Recent Courses Taught MSE 201 - Phases and Phase Relations MSE 396 - Introduction to Research MSE 401 - Thermodynamics of Materials Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Make a Gift Materials Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 201 Materials Science and Engineering Building 1304 W. Green St. MC 246 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1441 | F: (217) 333-2736 matse@illinois.edu Cookie Preferences Copyright 2021 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
