Nisheeth Vishnoi, B. Tech., Computer Science and Engineering , Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, 1995-1999 Ph. D., Algorithms, Combinatorics and Optimization, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1999-2004. Joined Yale Faculty January 2019. | Computer Science Skip to main content Yale University Search form Search this site Computer Science Main Menu Sub Menu Home Academics People Department Information News Research Calendar Research Internship Program Open Positions Stay Connected Internal CS Only You are hereHome People Nisheeth Vishnoi Nisheeth Vishnoi, B. Tech., Computer Science and Engineering , Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, 1995-1999 Ph. D., Algorithms, Combinatorics and Optimization, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1999-2004. Joined Yale Faculty January 2019. A. Bartlett Giamatti Professor of Computer ScienceAddress:10 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, CT 06511nisheeth.vishnoi@gmail.comWebsiteMy research spans several areas of theoretical computer science: from approximability of NP-hard problems, to combinatorial, convex and non-convex optimization, to tackling algorithmic questions involving dynamical systems, stochastic processes, and polynomials. I am also broadly interested in understanding and addressing some of the key questions that arise in nature and society from the viewpoint of theoretical computer science. Here, my current focus is on natural algorithms, emergence of intelligence, and questions at the interface of AI, Ethics, and Society. Selected Publications: Controlling Polarization in Personalization: An Algorithmic Approach, L. Elisa Celis, Sayash Kapoor, Farnood Salehi, Nisheeth K. Vishnoi,ACM FAT*, 2019. Dimensionally Tight Running Time Bounds for Second-Order Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, Oren Mangoubi, Nisheeth K. Vishnoi,NeurIPS, 2018. IRLS and Slime Mold: Equivalence and Convergence, Damian Straszak, Nisheeth K. Vishnoi,Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science, 2017. The Unique Games Conjecture, IntegralityGap for Cut Problems and the Embeddability of Negative Type Metrics into 1, Subhash Khot, Nisheeth K. Vishnoi, Journal of the ACM, 62(1), 2015. Lx=b (Laplacian Solvers and Their Algorithmic Applications),Nisheeth K. Vishnoi,Foundations and Trends in Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 8, Issue 1-2, 2012. Yale University Copyright 2021 Yale University All rights reserved Privacy policy Accessibility at Yale Stay Connected: Facebook Twitter
