Y. Richard Yang, B.E., Tsinghua University, 1993 M.S., Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, 1998, 2001. Joined Yale Faculty 2001. | Computer Science Skip to main content Yale University Search form Search this site Computer Science Main Menu Sub Menu Home Academics People Department Information News Research Calendar Research Internship Program Open Positions Stay Connected Internal CS Only You are hereHome People Y. Richard Yang Y. Richard Yang, B.E., Tsinghua University, 1993 M.S., Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, 1998, 2001. Joined Yale Faculty 2001. Professor of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering; Director of Undergraduate Studies Computer ScienceAddress:AKW 308A, 51 Prospect St, New Haven, CT 06511203-432-6400yang.r.yang@yale.eduWebsiteYang Richard Yang is interested in computer networks, network security, distributed multimedia, and real-time systems. His latter research focuses are on end-to-end network congestion control and secure multicast. For congestion control, his research has spanned the life cycle of congestion control: design of new congestion control scheme, characterization of congestion control protocols, evaluation of the impacts of congestion control on emerging multimedia applications, and extension of unicast congestion control to multicast congestion control. For secure multicast, he is one of the main developers of keygem, a multicast group key management system that implements scalable and reliable rekeying. Yang is currently interested in the problems of network congestion control and group key management in the context of wireless and mobile networks as well as a network under denial of service attack. Given his past experience, he also follows closely the researches in artificial intelligence and database. Representative Publications: Reliable Group Rekeying: A Performance Analysis, with X. Li, X. Zhang, and S.S. Lam, Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM 2001, San Diego, CA, USA, August 2001. Transient Behaviors of TCP-friendly Congestion Control Protocols, with M. Kim, and S.S. Lam, Proceedings of INFOCOM 2001, Anchorage, Alaska, April 2001. General AIMD Congestion Control, with S.S. Lam, Proceedings of ICNP 2000, Osaka, Japan, November 2000. Yale University Copyright 2021 Yale University All rights reserved Privacy policy Accessibility at Yale Stay Connected: Facebook Twitter
