Abraham Silberschatz, Ph.D. in Computer Science, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook, 1976. Joined Yale Faculty 2003. | Computer Science Skip to main content Yale University Search form Search this site Computer Science Main Menu Sub Menu Home Academics People Department Information News Research Calendar Research Internship Program Open Positions Stay Connected Internal CS Only You are hereHome People Abraham Silberschatz Abraham Silberschatz, Ph.D. in Computer Science, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook, 1976. Joined Yale Faculty 2003. Sidney J. Weinberg Professor Computer Science Address:AKW 308, 51 Prospect St, New Haven, CT 06511203-432-4713abraham.silberschatz@yale.eduWebsiteAvi Silberschatz is the Sidney J. Weinberg Professor of Computer Science at Yale University. Prior to joining Yale, he was the Vice President of the Information Sciences Research Center at Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey. Prior to that, he held a chaired professorship in the Department of Computer Sciences at the University of Texas at Austin. His research interests include database systems, operating systems, Bioscience database systems, storage system, network management, and distributed systems. Professor Silberschatz is a Fellow of ACM, a Fellow of IEEE, a Fellow of AAAS, and a member of the Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering. He received the 2002 IEEE Taylor L. Booth Education Award, the 1998 ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, and the 1997 ACM SIGMOD Contribution Award. In recognition for his outstanding level of innovation and technical excellence, Silberschatz was awarded the Bell Laboratories Presidents Award, in 1998 (QTM Project), 1999 (DataBlitz Project), and 2004 (NetInventory Project). Professor Silberschatz has graduated over a dozen Ph.D. students who now hold positions in academic institutions and industrial research laboratories. His writings have appeared in numerous ACM and IEEE publications and in other professional conferences and journals. He obtained over four dozen patents and over two dozen grants. He is a co-author of two well known textbooks Operating System Concepts and Database System Concepts. Professor Silberschatz has written editorials dealing with technology and policy issues, which have appeared in various publications including The New York Times, Boston Globe, Hartford Courant, and Industry Standard, among others. Representative Publications: Abouzeid, A., D. Angluin, C. Papadimitriou. J. Hellerstein, and A. Silberschatz, Learning and Verifying Quantified Boolean Queries by Example PODS 2013, June 2013. Abouzeid, A., J. Hellerstein, and A. Silberschatz, DataPlay: Interactive Tweaking and Example driven Correction of Graphical Database Queries, ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, October 2012. Abouzeid, A., J. Hellerstein, and A. Silberschatz, Playful Query Specification with DataPlay, VLDB 2012, August 2012. Bajda-Pawlikowski, K., D. Abadi, A. Silberschatz, and A. Rasin, Efficient Processing of Data Warehousing Queries in a Split Execution Environment SIGMOD 2011, June 2011. Abouzeid, A., K. Bajda-Pawlikowski, D. Abadi, A. Silberschatz, and A. Rasin, HadoopDB: An Architectural Hybrid of MapReduce and DBMS Technologies for Analytical Workloads, VLDB 2009, August 2009. Xie, H., R. Yang, A. Krishnamurthy, and A. Silberschatz, P4P: Provider Portals for (P2P) Applications, SIGCOMM 2008, August 2008. Corwin, J., A. Silberschatz, P. Miller and L. Marenco, Dynamic Tables: An Architecture for Managing Evolving, Heterogeneous Biomedical Data in Relational Database Management Systems, Journal of American Medical Information Association, (January 2007). Yang, R., H. Xie, H. Wang, L. Li, Y. Liu, A. Silberschatz, and A. Krishnamurthy, Stable Route Selection for Interdomain Traffic Engineering, IEEE Network Magazine, 19, 6 (November/December 2005). Wang, H., H. Xie, L. Qiu, A. Silberschatz, and R. Yang, Optimal ISP Subscription for Internet Multihoming: Algorithm Design and Implication Analysis, INFOCOOM 2005, March 2005. Abiteboul, S., et al. The Lowell Database Research Self-Assessment, Communications of the ACM 48, 5, May 2005. Breitbart, Y., M. Garofalakis, B. Jai, C. Martin, R. Rastogi, and A. Silberschatz, Topology Discovery in Heterogeneous IP Networks: The NetInventory System, Transactions on Networking, June 2004. Schnase, J.L., J. Cushing, M. Frame, A. Frondorf, E. Landis, D. Maier, and A. Silberschatz, Information Technology challenges of biodiversity and ecosystems informatics, Information Systems 28, 2003. Mehortra, S., H. Korth, R. Rastogi, and A. Silberschatz, Ensuring Consistency in Multidatabases by Preserving Two-Level Serializability, ACM Transactions on Database Systems, June 1998. Silberschatz, A. and A. Tuzhilin, What Make Patterns Interesting in Knowledge Discovery Systems, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, December 1996. Ozden, B., R. Rastogi, and A. Silberschatz, Research Issues in Multimedia Storage Servers. ACM Computing Surveys, December 1995. Jagadish, H. V., I. Mumick, A. Silberschatz, View Maintenance Issues for the Chronicle Data Model, ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD Symposium on Principles of Database Systems, May 1995. Jagadish, H. V., D. Lieuwen, R. Rastogi, A. Silberschatz, and S. Sudarshan, Dali: A High Performance Main Memory Storage Manager, International Conference on Very Large Databases, September 1994. Read, R., D. Fussell, and A. Silberschatz A Multi-Resolution Relational Data Model, International Conference on Very Large Databases, August 1992. Silberschatz, A. and Z. Kedem, Consistency in Hierarchical Database Systems, Journal of the ACM 27, January 1980. Yale University Copyright 2021 Yale University All rights reserved Privacy policy Accessibility at Yale Stay Connected: Facebook Twitter
