Susan Jung Grant | Questrom School of Business Latest COVID-19 Information Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Susan Jung Grant Susan Jung Grant Clinical Associate Professor,Marketing Phone 617-353-4283 Email sjgrant@bu.edu Office 617A BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV As a clinical associate professor of marketing at Boston University, I am involved in teaching and innovating MBA, masters and undergraduate curriculum. I have 20 years of experience teaching and mentoring students at all levels undergraduate, MBA and PhD. Most recently, I have developed a new masters of management curriculum for STEM students at Questrom (http://poetsandquants.com/2015/12/22/a-management-masters-with-a-difference/). The most rewarding aspect of my job is guiding students in connecting theory to practice inside the classroom and supporting them in achieving their professional aspirations outside the classroom. I have won awards for my teaching, including the MBA educator of distinction award, and for my research, including a prize from the Society for Consumer Psychology for my dissertation. I have been a frequent media commentator on marketing strategy, practices and trends for NPR, Poets and Quants, The Denver Post, KGO, and Glamour. ? My teaching interests, which emphasize a holistic look at business, include marketing principles, research methods, experimental design, marketing strategy, and buyer behavior. I have pioneered bringing experiential learning into the classroom in partnership with area companies by identifying consulting projects that create strategies for growth. My research, which I have presented nationally and internationally, explores why and how the most impactful marketing happens between consumers ears. Current interests include innovation, evolutionary psychology, and financial decision-making. I have published papers with an exclusive focus on top-tier marketing journals and have a passion for testing how frameworks are applied in practice. Much of my business background has involved working with innovative companies that have been the basis of student learning. As a result, I have pursued many academic-professional partnerships. I have worked with senior executives from Bose, Quintiles, AT&T, PUMA, Uber, Leo Burnett, Arnold Worldwide, Thermo Fisher and other area companies. I have worked with many of these companies to develop case studies, research projects, and lectures on marketing, strategy and innovation. In addition, I have worked with secondary schools to create business curriculum for their students, including Vail Mountain School (Vail, Colorado), Monarch High School (Superior, Colorado), and Western Reserve Academy (Hudson, Ohio). Ireceived my PhD in marketing and my MBA in marketing and finance from the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University. As an undergraduate, I earned a degree in English literature, with a specialization in poetry, from the University of Pennsylvania. I worked as a journalist at The Boston Globe, The Washington Post, the Associated Press, and The Philadelphia Inquirer before attending graduate school to study management. I was born in Taegu, South Korea, and grew up in Youngstown, Ohio. I live in Wellesley, Massachusetts, with my husband, Julien, a corporate strategist for Medtronic, and our two boys, Harrison and Benjamin. Publications Kan, C., Lichtenstein, D., Grant, S., Janiszewski, C. (2014). "Strengthening the Influence of Advertised Reference Prices through Information Priming", Journal of Consumer Research, 40 (6), 1078-1096 Grant, S., Stutzer, M. (2013). "Misperceptions of Long-Term Investment Performance: Insights From An Experiment", Journal of Behavioral Finance and Economics, 3 (1) Jhang, J., Grant, S., Campbell, M. (2012). "Get It? Got It. Good! Enhancing New Product Acceptance by Facilitating Resolution of Extreme Incongruity", Journal of Marketing Research, 49 (2), 247-259 Web Links Poets & Quants, "Management Masters with a Difference"http://poetsandquants.com/2015/12/22/a-management-masters-with-a-difference/ Poets & Quants, "Most Innovative Business School Ideas of 2015"http://poetsandquants.com/2015/12/20/the-most-innovative-business-school-ideas-of-2015/ BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
