Jay Kim | Questrom School of Business Latest COVID-19 Information Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Jay Kim Jay Kim Associate Professor,Operations and Technology Management Phone 617-353-9749 Email jkimjr@bu.edu Website http://management.bu.edu Office 643 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Dr. Jay Kim is Associate Professor of Operations and Technology Management at Boston University's Questrom School of Business, where he teaches courses in operations management, global operations strategy, supply chain management, and product innovation. He was the department chair in 1995-97, and the faculty director of the Schools various international programs in 1997-2006. He was the research director of Global Manufacturing Futures Project in 1994-97. Professor Kims research is focused on developing and implementing global operations and value chain strategies. Particularly, he is investigating the complementary effects from two dominant forces of the 21st century economy that radically change competitive requirements for global companies accelerating technological innovations in a wide range of sectors and vigorous economic development in emerging market countries. He has given lectures on global operations strategy, quality improvement, value chain enhancement, and innovative business models to managers of various technology-intensive companies, such as IBM, Raytheon, Johnson & Johnson, Carrier, Sanyo and Toshiba of Japan, and Korean conglomerates like Daewoo, LG, SK, KEPCO, and Samsung. In 1997, he served as a special advisor for Chairman Kim Woo-Choong of Korea's Daewoo Group. In 2012, Jay Kim published his first book in Korean language, titled Growth 3.0, which integrates his most recent thoughts on innovative growth strategies in the context of rapid changes in technologies, global markets, and disruptive competition. In 2015, he was appointed by Koreas Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning as the founding director general of Korea Innovation Center, Washington DC. For two years, he created and implemented innovative programs to enable and facilitate cross-border innovation and entrepreneurship engagements, such as KIC Start MassChallenge, KIC Start I-Corps, and KIC Bio-Health Accelerators. Professor Kim received his Ph.D. in operations management from the Ohio State University in 1989, his MBA from Bowling Green State University in 1985, and his BA in management from Seoul National University, Korea in 1980. His research papers appeared on various journals, including Decision Sciences, California Management Review, International Journal of Production and Operations Management, International Journal of Production Research, Operations Management Review, Journal of Far Eastern Businesses, International Journal of Information Systems and Supply Chain Management, and Journal of Purchasing and Materials Management. Education PhD, Ohio State University, 1989 MBA, Bowling Green State University, 1985 BA, Seoul National University, 1980 Publications Kim, J., Kim, J. (2017). "Global Success of Israeli Biotechnology Companies - Strategic Benefits from Engaging with Boston's Global Bio Hub", KISTEP InI (Inside and Insight), 23 (12), 33-51 Kim, J. (2017). "Three Mechanisms to Facilitate Successful Bio Innovation Ecosystem (in Korean)", Biospectator Kim, J. (2017). "How do you create innovation economy from research in science and technology?", Naeil Shinmoon Kim, J. (2017). "The central point of innovation economy must start from science and technology", Naeil Shinmoon Kim, J. (2017). "Should all innovation ecosystems attempt to copy the Silicon Valley?", Naeil Shinmoon Kim, J. (2017). "Creative Economy 2.0 now requires a healthy innovation ecosystem", Naeil Shinmoon Kim, J. (2017). "Korea's Creative Economy 2.0 - Support Global Entrepreneurship", Naeil Shinmoon Kim, J. (2017). "Korea's Creative Economy, Restart with Global Leap", Naeil Shinmoon Kim, J. (2013). "Growth 3.0 requires a re-birth of the corporate foundation", Chief Executive Kim, J. (2013). "Reject the premature saturation theory through value innovation", Chief Executive Kim, J. (2012). "Innovative growth requires innovative concepts and framework", Chief Executive Kim, J. (2012). "Growth 3.0 and Innovative Management", Chief Executive Kim, J. (2012). "Elements of Innovative Management", Chief Executive Kim, J. (2012). "Growth 3.0: Innovative Growth through Innovative Management", Korean Management Association Kim, J., Arnold, P. (1996). "Operationalizing Manufacturing Strategy: Exploratory Study of Constructs and Linkages", International Journal of Operations and Production Management, 16 (12) Research Presentations Kim, J. How Does Science Become Business: Scientific and Operational Barriers and Bottlenecks, Decision Sciences Institute Annual Meeting, New Orleans, 2019 Kim, J. Boston Bio Innovation Ecosystem: Known Secrets and Hidden Secrets, KABIC Symposium with Korean Minister of Health, Cambridge, 2019 Kim, J. How Does Science Become Business: Lessons from Boston Bio Innovation Cluster, LG Life Science Research Symposium, Seoul, Korea, 2019 Kim, J. Global Network of Bio Innovation Ecosystem: Connecting Daejeon and Boston, Daejeon Bio-Health Innovation Association Special Symposium, Daejeon, Korea, 2019 Kim, J. Boston Bio Innovation Ecosystem: Implications for Seoul National University Bio Innovation Institute, Seoul National University Bio-MAXX Institute, Seoul, Korea, 2019 Kim, J. Boston Bio Innovation Ecosystem: Implications for Pharmacology Colleges, Seoul National University College of Pharmacy Symposium, Seoul, Korea, 2019 Kim, J. How Does Science Become Business: The Work of Entrepreneurs and Role of Ecosystem, Korea Institute of Science and Technology Translational Research Institute, Seoul, Korea, 2019 Kim, J. Translational Science 3.0: Current Trends and Future Opportunities for Translational Research Public Policies, KISTEP (Korea Institute of Science and Technology Evaluation and Planning) Innovation Research Forum, KISTEP, Seoul, Korea, 2018 Kim, J. How to Put Together an Effective Business Model, KASBP (Korean American Society of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical) Fall Symposium, KASBP, Dedham, MA, 2018 Kim, J. Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Opportunities, Challenges, and Strategies, Boston University Mini-EMBA, Boston University, Fort Lee, NJ, 2018 Kim, J. Industry 4.0 and Continuing Education: Opportunities and Experiments, KONULA (Korea National University Life-long Education Center Association) International Forum, KONULA, Boston MA, 2018 Kim, J. Commercializing Biomedical Sciences, KRIBB (Korean Research Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology) MD-Ph.D. Boston Forum, KRIBB, Cambridge MA, 2018 Kim, J. Creating a Global Hub for Korean Innovation, Boston Korea Innovation Forum Kickoff Symposium, Korean Consulate General - Boston, Boston MA, 2018 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
