Faculty & Research | Questrom School of Business Latest COVID-19 Information Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty & Research Home/Faculty & Research The caliber of a business school is driven by the excellence of its faculty. Simple as that. At the Questrom School of Business, our world-class faculty is comprised of applied researchers, market experts, entrepreneurs, inventors, and bestselling authorsall of them dynamic in the classroom. Driven by scholarship, teaching, and community engagement, they are committed to generating valuable insights for our students and for business practice. Even our Dean brings academic experience. Susan Fournier, Allen Questrom Professor and Dean, is the Schools first academic appointed to dean in over 40 years. With her inside Questrom perspective, over twenty years of experience in academia, and her award-winning research, she encourages synergies across teaching, research, and service that can advance the Schools mission. Questrom lives within one of the nations finest research institutions, which means our professors are renowned in their fields. What distinguishes them is their dedication to developing a true learning environment. Our faculty work collaboratively to create and teach our skillfully crafted curriculum so that our students are highly preparedand competitiveupon graduation. Many of Questroms faculty are tackling the difficult questions facing business and society through a cross-disciplinary approach to research, which enhances their classroom content and acumen. Were fortunate to be part of a University where an urban and global community of innovative scholars and teachers unites around the emerging forces of our economy, including health and life sciences, digital technology, and social enterprise and sustainability. Learn more about the faculty leading the charge at Questrom, across the University, and in the field. Faculty & Research Endowed Chairs & Faculty Scholars Academic Departments Our Sectors Our Research Research Institutes Faculty Directory Faculty Recruitment Seminars Insights@Questrom Questrom's new digital hub for relevant, thought-provoking ideas on emerging business topics. DISCOVER INSIGHTS Meet our Faculty Edward Riedl John F. Smith Jr. Professor in Management Professor,Accounting Department Chair, Accounting Remi Trudel Associate Professor,Marketing Anita Tucker Everett W. Lord Distinguished Faculty Scholar Professor,Operations and Technology Management N Venkatraman David J. McGrath Jr. Professor in Management Professor,Information Systems BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
