David Stolow | Questrom School of Business Latest COVID-19 Information Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/David Stolow David Stolow Senior Lecturer,Management & Organizations Co-Faculty Director, Social Impact Program Phone 617-353-2927 Email dstolow@bu.edu Office 525 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV David Stolow teaches courses related to nonprofit management and social enterprise and is the Co-Faculty Director for the Social Impact MBA Program at the Boston University Questrom School of Business. Prior to joining the Questrom School of Business faculty full-time in fall 2011, David served as a Lecturer for three years, teaching Social Entrepreneurship. He also taught Education Reform and the Rise of Out of School Time at Lesley University from 2007-2011. From 2001-2011, David was Director of Strategic Development at Citizen Schools, a national nonprofit network of extended-learning programs and an advocate for a longer and more robust school day. David was primarily responsible for securing resources and managing partnerships with national foundations and federal agencies such as the Corporation for National and Community Service and the National Science Foundation. He also helps to lead Citizen Schools Teaching Fellowship, which recruits 200+ aspiring educators to serve for two years as front-line teachers, mentors, and community builders in high-need schools. Prior to joining Citizen Schools in 2001, David worked for 11 years in nonprofit management in the Boston area. He served as Director of Finance for TERC, a developer of innovative math and science curriculum. He then served as Team Leader, National Policy Assistant, and Chief Financial Officer for City Year from 1992-95 when City Year launched its national expansion. From 1996-2000, he worked as Chief Financial Officer for Boston Community Capital, a leading Community Development Financial Institution. At The Home for Little Wanderers, one of New Englands largest child welfare agencies, David was the Director of Financial Strategy and later Chief Financial Officer. David serves on the Board of the Aloha Foundation and Excel Academy Charter School and on the Loan Committee of BlueHub Community Loan Fund. He has previously served on the Board of Directors of Bright Futures Adoption Center, the Massachusetts Youth Service Alliance, the Home for Little Wanderers, Boston Childrens Services, Health Leads, and Generations Incorporated. David graduated summa cum laude from Yale University in 1986 and holds a Masters Degree in Public and Private Management from the Yale School of Management. Education MPPM, Yale School of Management, 1990 Awards and Honors 2019, Questrom Award for Institutional Leadership BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
