Michael Smith | Questrom School of Business Latest COVID-19 Information Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Michael Smith Michael Smith Associate Professor,Accounting My course examines the internal use of accounting information by organizations (cost allocation, budgeting, decision-making, performance evaluation), Michael says. It addresses sustainability reporting, and is taken almost exclusively by Social Impact students. Ive noticed a trend toward more social engagement in all MBA students since I started teaching in 1997, but its much more pronounced in Social Impact students. The faith they have in the possibility of change is encouraging. As a researcher, Michael Smith does theoretical modeling in both the financial reporting and managerial accounting areas. One of his current projects involves theoretical analysis of the Carbon Disclosure Project, a mechanism for making disclosure about carbon footprint and climate change risk. He enjoys sharing insights from this work with his Integrated Reporting class, which is just one reason the course is so popular among Social Impact MBA students. My course examines the internal use of accounting information by organizations (cost allocation, budgeting, decision-making, performance evaluation), Michael says. It addresses sustainability reporting, and is taken almost exclusively by Social Impact students. In the class, Michaels students spend a lot of time reading the source documents of the various organizations promulgating sustainability reporting standards. Students also examine actual sustainability reports issued by firms. I expose them to the various competing paradigms for sustainability reportingwhat theyre trying to do and the extent to which they succeed or fail, Michael says. I also want them to form some taste with respect to this kind of disclosure. Many companies release reports with beautiful graphics and uplifting human interest stories, but very little substantive content. I want my students to gain the ability to distinguish meaningful information from boilerplate or outright marketing material. Based on his knowledge of the field, Michael predicts that career opportunities will abound for MBAs interested in sustainability reporting. Hes getting Questroms Social Impact students ready to take the lead. My course prepares students to play a role in the explosion of sustainability reporting that I believe will take place in the next 10 to 20 years, he says. Most of the performance assessments of for-profit companies still pertain to financial performance. Its easier to measure and weve been measuring it for a long time, so know how to do it. Measuring non-financial performanceinnovation, carbon footprint, water, waste, inclusiveness in employment, engagement with communitieswill be increasingly important as society finally begins to address large systemic problems. But this is hard to do, and we havent been doing it as long. So, the field is wide open. Despite the social challenges ahead, Michael remains optimistic about the future. Ive noticed a trend toward more social engagement in all MBA students since I started teaching in 1997, but its much more pronounced in Social Impact students. The faith they have in the possibility of change is encouraging. Phone 617-353-6673 Email msmith22@bu.edu Website http://smgpublish.bu.edu/msmith22/HomePa Office 538 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV As a researcher, Michael Smith does theoretical modeling in both the financial reporting and managerial accounting areas. One of his current projects involves theoretical analysis of the Carbon Disclosure Project, a mechanism for making disclosure about carbon footprint and climate change risk. He enjoys sharing insights from this work with his Integrated Reporting class, which is just one reason the course is so popular among Social Impact MBA students. My course examines the internal use of accounting information by organizations (cost allocation, budgeting, decision-making, performance evaluation), Michael says. It addresses sustainability reporting, and is taken almost exclusively by Social Impact students. In the class, Michaels students spend a lot of time reading the source documents of the various organizations promulgating sustainability reporting standards. Students also examine actual sustainability reports issued by firms. I expose them to the various competing paradigms for sustainability reportingwhat theyre trying to do and the extent to which they succeed or fail, Michael says. I also want them to form some taste with respect to this kind of disclosure. Many companies release reports with beautiful graphics and uplifting human interest stories, but very little substantive content. I want my students to gain the ability to distinguish meaningful information from boilerplate or outright marketing material. Based on his knowledge of the field, Michael predicts that career opportunities will abound for MBAs interested in sustainability reporting. Hes getting Questroms Social Impact students ready to take the lead. My course prepares students to play a role in the explosion of sustainability reporting that I believe will take place in the next 10 to 20 years, he says. Most of the performance assessments of for-profit companies still pertain to financial performance. Its easier to measure and weve been measuring it for a long time, so know how to do it. Measuring non-financial performanceinnovation, carbon footprint, water, waste, inclusiveness in employment, engagement with communitieswill be increasingly important as society finally begins to address large systemic problems. But this is hard to do, and we havent been doing it as long. So, the field is wide open. Despite the social challenges ahead, Michael remains optimistic about the future. Ive noticed a trend toward more social engagement in all MBA students since I started teaching in 1997, but its much more pronounced in Social Impact students. The faith they have in the possibility of change is encouraging. Education PhD, Stanford University, 1998 BS, University of Pennsylvania, 1984 Publications Smith, M. (In Press). "Monetizing Virtuous Employees", Accounting, Organizations and Society Levine, C., Smith, M. (2019). "Clawbacks and Earnings Management", Journal of Management Accounting Research, 31 (3), 129-151 Smith, M. (2015). "Accounting Conservatism and the Efficient Provision of Capital to Privately Informed Firms", Contemporary Accounting Research, 32 (2), 485-+ Smith, M. (2015). "Shareholders' preference for excessively risky projects, equilibrium debt contracts, and bailouts", Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 34 (3), 244-266 Narayanan, V., Smith, M. (2013). "Competition and Cost Accounting", Levine, C., Smith, M. (2011). "Critical Accounting Policy Disclosures", Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 26 (1), 39-76 Smith, M. (2010). "Geeksploitation: Optimism and Monitoring-Aversion in Agency Relationships", Journal of Management Accounting Research, 22 (1), 133-156 Smith, M. (2007). "Accounting Conservatism and Real Options", Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 22 (3), 449-467 Francis, J., Smith, M. (2005). "A reexamination of the persistence of accruals and cash flows", Journal of Accounting Research, 43 (3), 413-451 Levine, C., Smith, M. (2004). "Information Externalities, Underinvestment, and Organizational Remedies", Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 19 (4), 435-455 Levine, C., Smith, M. (2003). "Ex Post Voluntary Disclosure Strategies for Insiders", Contemporary Accounting Research, 20 (4), 719-746 Levine, C., Smith, M. (2003). "Information dissemination by insiders in equilibrium", Journal of Financial Markets, 6 (1), 23-47 Smith, M. (2002). "Tax and Incentive Trade-Offs in Multinational Transfer Pricing", Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, 17 (3), 209-236 Smith, M. (2002). "Gaming Nonfinancial Performance Measures", Journal of Management Accounting Research, 14 (1), 119-133 Smith, M. (2002). "Ex Ante and Ex Post Discretion over Arm's Length Transfer Prices", The Accounting Review, 77 (1), 161-184 Narayanan, V., Smith, M. (2000). "Impact of Competition and Taxes on Responsibility Center Organization and Transfer Prices", Contemporary Accounting Research, 17 (3), 497-529 Awards and Honors 2017, Broderick Award for Excellence in Teaching, Questrom School, Boston University BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
