Rosalba Schino | Questrom School of Business Latest COVID-19 Information Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Rosalba Schino Rosalba Schino Lecturer,Accounting Phone 617-353-1460 Email rschino@bu.edu Office 543 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Rosalba Schino is a Lecturer of the Accounting Department in the Questrom School of Business. She joined Boston University in 2015; she previously had an academic appointment as an Adjunct Lecturer at Sawyer School of Business of Suffolk University from 2011 to 2015. She graduated from the Business School of the University Aldo Moro in Bari, Italy, in 1998 with an MS in Business and Economics. She is currently pursuing her Ph.D. in Public Policy from the University of Massachusetts, McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies, in Boston. Prior to joining Boston University, Rosalba worked in the industry and at a Big 4 audit firm for a total of over 15 years. She held Senior Management and Officer roles in the public and private sectors. She is a Certified Public Accountant. Her research interest focuses on health and healthcare policies. In particular, she is interested in measuring the effectiveness and efficiency of health and healthcare government programs. Rosalba currently teaches courses of financial accounting and auditing. She taught courses of managerial accounting at the undergraduate level over the years. She is a Visiting Lecturer of the Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, in Rome, Italy, where she teaches a course of Financial Accounting and Performance Management of Healthcare Organizations at the Healthcare Management Master Program. Rosalba serves as a Board and Executive Committee Member of the C.A.S.IT., Centro Attivita Scolastiche Italiane. She held the roles of Vice-President and Board Member responsible for the fundraising of nursery schools in the Boston area. She lives with her husband and two little children in Boston, and her most favorite activity is spending time with them. Research Presentations Palmarini, N. , Comitato, M. , Luppi, F. , Ruggeri, M. , Pais, I. , Schino, R. , Soto, M. Do Dense Urban Centers Provide Large Supportive Social Network to Older Adults? A Cross-Country Comparison Study, Annual Meeting of the Gerontological Society of America, Austin, TX, 2019 Schino, R. Value-based healthcare financing systems: the experience of Massachusetts., Panel on Innovative Ways of Funding and Organizing Healthcare Delivery: The Value-based Model, Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy, 2019 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
