About Mark | Mark G Duggan Skip to content Mark G Duggan SIEPRDirector@stanford.edu View CV About Research Teaching Policy Papers SIEPR About Mark Current Positions The Trione Director and Senior Fellow,Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) The Wayne and Jodi Cooperman Professor,Department of Economics Bio Mark Duggan is The Trione Director of SIEPR and The Wayne and Jodi Cooperman Professor of Economics at Stanford University. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering at M.I.T. in 1992 and 1994, respectively, and his Ph.D. in Economics from Harvard University in 1999. He is also a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and serves on the Editorial Board of theAmerican Economic Journal: Economic Policy. Before arriving to Stanford in the summer of 2014, Duggan served as the Rowan Family Foundation Professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and was also the Faculty Director of the Penn Wharton Public Policy Initiative and the Chair of Wharton's Business Economics and Public Policy Department. Professor Duggan's research focuses on the health care sector and also on the effects of government expenditure programs such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid on the behavior of individuals and firms. Some of his more recent research is exploring the effect of federal disability programs on the labor market and of the Affordable Care Act on the labor market and health care costs. His research has been published in leading academic journals including theAmerican Economic Review, theJournal of Political Economy, and theQuarterly Journal of Economicsand has been featured in many media outlets includingThe Economist,The New York Times, andThe Wall Street Journal. Professor Duggan was the 2010 recipient of the ASHEcon Medal, which is awarded every two years by the American Society of Health Economists to the economist aged 40 and under in the U.S. who has made the most significant contributions to the field of health economics. Along with his co-author Fiona Scott Morton, he received the National Institute for Health Care Management's 2011 Health Care Research Award for their work on Medicare Part D. He was a Fellow of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation from 2004-6 and a Visiting Fellow at the Brookings Institution from 2006-7. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Social Security Administration, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Duggan served from 2009-10 as the Senior Economist for Health Care Policy at the White House Council of Economic Advisers and has testified about his research before the House Ways and Means and Senate Budget Committees. Address Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR) Room 206 366 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305http://siepr.stanford.edu/ Contact Info SIEPRDirector@stanford.edu Executive Assistant Amber Sanchez Crowe ascrowe@stanford.edu (650) 723-3199 SUNetID Login
