Dwayne D. Arola | College of Engineering Website Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo College of Engineering Website Wordmark Logo Faculty MyMSE Scheduler UW Links Menu Search Main menu About us About us Mission, Facts and Stats Facilities & Labs Visit MSE ABET Accreditation Contact Us Employment People People MSE Directories Core Faculty Faculty Honors Adjuncts, Affiliates, Emeriti, Lecturers Staff Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Facilities and Labs News & Events News & Events News MSE Event Calendar MSE Industry Day MSE 520: Seminar Series 2021 UW MSE Capstone Design Symposium Roberts Hall Review Newsletter MSE Annual Awards MSE Graduation Celebration Admission Admission Why UW MSE? Undergraduate admission Master's Program Admission Ph.D. Program Admission Tuition and financial aid Admitted graduate students Students Students Undergraduate program Master's Program Students Ph.D. Program Students MSE Course Descriptions Undergrad Labs and Shops Student Clubs and Organizations Careers and Internships International Students Diversity Resources Community Community Alumni Materials Camp - High School Materials Camp - Middle School Engineering Discovery Days Additional Links Additional Links Faculty MyMSE Scheduler Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Faculty MyMSE Scheduler People People Core Faculty Dwayne D. Arola Associate Professor Materials Science & Engineering Adjunct Associate Professor Mechanical Engineering Director, Applied Masters Program (AMP) darola@uw.edu (206) 685-8158 ROB 333 Biography Dwayne Arola received his training in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Washington. In addition to Materials Science and Engineering, he holds adjunct appointments in Mechanical Engineering, Oral Health Science and Restorative Dentistry. His research is broadly focused on the microstructure and mechanical behavior of engineering and natural materials. His interests include additive manufacturing, bioinspiration, damage tolerance, and the durability of materials. Education Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, University of Washington, 1996 M.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Washington, 1991 B.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Washington, 1989 Previous appointments Professor, Mechanical Engineering, University of Maryland Baltimore County Research Professor, Department of Endodontics, Prosthodontics and Operative Dentistry, Dental School, University of Maryland Research Statement My research program is focused on solving problems that involve the mechanical behavior of materials and factors (either environmental or manufacturing) that influence their performance and durability. Our current studies are focused on understanding the properties of natural materials and engineered materials, as well as the interfaces between hard tissues and biomaterials. Much of the effort is aimed at evaluating the fatigue and fracture behavior of these materials, as well as finding ways to examine and quantify changes in their behavior with aging. Our methods extend from the nano- to the macro-scale. Recent efforts have involved topics relevant to the fields of orthopedics and restorative dentistry. We address fundamental questions, with the ultimate goal being to contribute to the pursuit and maintenance of lifelong health. In addition to our efforts on existing materials, we are developing new materials inspired by biological structural materials. We have current studies underway aimed at the development of bioinspired ceramics, metals and polymers for various applications with multi-functional performance and exceptional properties. Current projects Aging of Hard Tissues Bioinspired Design of Damage Tolerant Engineered Materials Mechanical Property Variability in Selective Laser Melting Additive Manufacturing Additive Manufacturing of Polymer Composites and their Durability Under Prolonged Marine Environments Select publications Marsico C, ilo M, Kutsch J, Kauf M, Arola D.Vat polymerization-printed partially stabilized zirconia: Mechanical properties, reliability and structural defects. Add Man 2020; 36:101450. Montelione A, Ghods S, Schur R, Wisdom C, Schultz E, Pahuja R, Arola D, and Ramulu M. Powder Reuse in Electron Beam Melting Additive Manufacturing of Ti6Al4V: Microstructure, Oxygen Content and Particle Properties. Add Man 2020; 35: 101216 Jiang H, Ghods S, Weller E, Waddell S, Ossa AE, Yang F and Arola D. Contributions of Intermolecular Bonding and Lubrication to the Mechanical Behavior of a Natural Armor. Acta Biomat 2020; 106: 242-255. Arola D, Ghods S, Son W, Murcia S, Ossa EA. Interfibril bonding improves the strain-rate response of natural armor. J Royal Soc: Interface 2019; 16(150):1-12. Yan W, Montoya C, ilo M, Ossa A, Paranjpe A, Zhang H, Arola D. Reduction in fracture resistance of the root with aging. J Endod. 2017;43(9):1494-1498. Arola D. Fatigue testing of biomaterials and their interfaces. Dent Mater. 2017;33(4):367-381. Invited Yahyazadehfar M, Arola D. The role of organic proteins on the crack growth resistance of human enamel. Acta Biomaterialia. 2015;19:33-45. Murcia S, McConville M, Li G, Ossa A, Arola D. Temperature effects on the fracture resistance of scales from Cyprinius Carpio. Acta Biomaterialia. 2015: 14:154-63. Bajaj D. and Arola D. On the R-Curve Behavior of Human Tooth Enamel. Biomaterials 2009; 30(23-24);4037-4046. Zhang D and Arola D. Application of digital image correlation to biological tissues. J Biomed Optics. 2004; 9(4):691-699. Honors & awards Elected MSE Faculty of the Year Award, Senior Class, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 Thousand Talents Scholar, Shanghai Municipality, Shanghai University, China, 2017 CAREER Award, National Science Foundation, 2004 Whitaker Foundation Award, 2003 News MSE awards celebrate achievement Meet the winners of the 2019MSE awards. Read Article MSE and partners win $1M NSF grant MSE has won a $1M grant to recruitstudents from underrepresented student populations. Read Article More News People MSE Directories Core Faculty Faculty Honors Adjuncts, Affiliates, Emeriti, Lecturers Staff Research interests Bioinsipred Materials Damage Tolerance Engineered Materials Fatigue Fracture Courses taught MSE 431 Failure Analysis and Durability of Materials MSE 462 Advanced Mechanical Behavior of Materials MSE 488/588 Materials in Manufacturing MSE 489/589 Additive Manufacturing: Materials, Processing and Applications MSE 498/599E Entrepreneurship and Commercialization in Engineering Ph.D. students Carli Moorehead Weishi Yan Sean Ghods Reid Schur Alex Montelione Rick Schleusner Alex Montelione Cameron Renteria Mallory Parker Katie Tang Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyMSE Log in Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 College of Engineering Website | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
