Les Atlas | UW Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Give to ECE Quick Links Menu News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Science Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Science Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation Les Atlas HomeUW Department of Electrical & Computer EngineeringFaculty Professor Biosystems, Data Science 410 ECE Campus Box 352500 University of Washington Seattle, WA 98195 Phone: 206-685-1315 Email: atlas@ece.uw.edu Research Web Page: sites.google.com/a/uw.edu/isdl Biography Les Atlas joined UW Electrical & Computer Engineering as an assistant professor in 1984 at the University of Washington. He has been a leader in signal processing research and educational activity in the Pacific Northwest, co-chairing the IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing in 1989 with Xuedong Huang of Microsoft.Atlas research has had an impact on signal processing for dynamical systems, time-frequency analysis and nonstationary statistics, with applications in streaming data, acoustics, machine monitoring, sensor arrays, speech processing and auditory sciences. His publication Improving generalization with active learning was foundational to the machine learning areas of active learning and selective sampling.Atlas graduate students have also had tremendous impact such as the first publication on trained (linear) convolutional neural networks for temporal signals, securing top faculty positions, initiating machine learning at Google, receiving multiple Technical Emmy Awards and founding companies such as Redfin.Atlas research is funded by the Army Research Office, the Office of Naval Research and the Wallace H. Coulter Foundation. Awards and Honors 8 faculty named 2017 Amazon Catalyst FellowsEE Faculty Early Career Award WinnersLes Atlas receives Fulbright Senior Scholar AwardAtlas Receives the Virginia Merrill Bloedel Scholar Award Research Projects simsong.orgTonality in Cochlear ImplantsNonstationary Acoustic ModelsAlternatives to Digital Processing and Demodulation for Standoff SensorsSensor Management Recent Publications S. Wisdom, T. Powers, J. Hershey, J. Le Roux, L. Atlas, "Full Capacity Unitary recurrent Neural Networks," Proc. NIPS 2016. [Link]D Cohn, L Atlas, and R Ladner, Improving generalization with active learning, Machine learning 15 (2), pp. 201-221, 1994.S. Wisdom, G. Okopal, L. Atlas, and J. Pitton, Voice Activity Detection Using Subband Noncircularity, Proc. IEEE ICASSP, Brisbane, Austrailia, April 2015. T Homma, L Atlas, and R Marks, An Artificial Neural Network for Spatio-Temporal Bipolar Patters: Application to Phoneme Classification, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 1: 3140, 1988.S. Wisdom, T. Powers, L. Atlas, and J. Pitton, Enhancement and Recognition of Reverberant and Noisy Speech by Extending Its Coherence, arXiv:1509.00533, Sep. 2015.G. Okopal, S. Wisdom, and L. Atlas, Speech Analysis with the Strong Uncorrelating Transform, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 23, no. 11, pp. 18581868, Nov. 2015.B. Ekin, L. Atlas, M. Mirbagheri, and A. Lee, "An Alternative Approach for Auditory Attention Tracking Using Single-Trial EEG, Proc. IEEE ICASSP, Shanghai, China, March 2016. Connect with ECE: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn University of Washington Be boundless Accessibility Contact Us Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms UW Electrical & Computer Engineering | Seattle, WA
