Pedro Arduino | UW Civil & Environmental Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW Civil & Environmental Engineering Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyCEE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About About What is CEE? Why CEE? Quick Facts Message from the Chair Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion ABET Accreditation Visiting CEE Contact Us Employment Research Research Research Areas Research facilities Research labs and groups Centers Global Research COVID-19 Research Graduate student research News & Events News & Events News Our Stories Events CEE Endowed Lectures The Bridge CEE on Video In the Media People People Faculty Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Academics Staff Student Profiles Future Students Future Students Undergraduates Graduates Online Studies Professional & Certificate Programs K-12 Programs Current Students Current Students Undergraduates Master's Ph.D. Curriculum & Course Planning Resources Careers and Internships Student Clubs Computing Study Abroad Preparing to Graduate Student Advisory Boards Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyCEE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyCEE People People Faculty Pedro Arduino Henry Roy Berg Endowed Professor Civil & Environmental Engineering Special Assistant to the Dean College of Engineering parduino@u.washington.edu (206) 543-6777 MOR 132I Faculty Website CV Biography Prof. Arduino joined the geotechnical group in the University of Washington Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering in 1997. His primary research interest are in computational geomechanics with emphasis in constitutive modeling of soils, finite element analysis, meshless techniques, soil structure interaction, and hazard analysis. Much of his current research is in the area of landslide and debris flow simulation, soil-structure interaction, and performance-based earthquake engineering. He has conducted research for the National Science Foundation, the Pacific Earthquake Engineering Research (PEER) Center, and the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT).Prof. Arduino held the Ray Bowen Professorship for Innovation in Engineering Education from 2003 - 2007 and received the Outstanding Teaching Award from the UW Department of Civil & Env. Engineering in 2009. Prof. Arduino was a visiting professor at the Universidad Nacional de Crdoba, Argentina in 2004 and 2008 and at the Universidad de los Andes in Colombia in 2008. He is a member of the ASCE EM Inelasticity and ER Earth and Retaining Structures committees and serves on the editorial board of the ASCE Journal of Geotechnical and Geo-environmental Engineering. Prof. Arduino is a member of GEER and was part of the reconnaissance team that visited Chile after the Maule, Chile, earthquake. Arduino has also served as a consultant to private firms and government agencies in the U.S. and abroad.Together with other faculty, he developed theWave Propagation Tool: Dr. Layer. Education PhD, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1997 MSCE, University of Puerto Rico, 1993 BSCE, Universidad Nacional de Crdoba, 1982 News College of Engineering Awards This spring, two CEE faculty and one student were honored with College of Engineering Awards. Read Article New CEE endowed professors SevenCEE faculty have received endowed professorships. Read Article Earthshaking information In the aftermath of the Central Mexico earthquake,a team of researchers includingprofessor Pedro Arduino and Jake Dafnitravel to Mexico to gather perishable data. Read Article Breakaway buildings for tsunamis To better protect communities during tsunamis, a faculty team comprised ofDawn Lehman,Michael Motley,Charles RoederandPedro Arduinohave received a $1 million NSF grant todevelop a new structural system. Read Article More News People Faculty Adjunct & Affiliate Faculty Emeritus Faculty Burges Endowed Visiting Professorship In Memoriam Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Academics Staff Student Profiles CEE research areas Geotechnical Engineering Research interests Constitutive Modeling of Soils Computational Geomechanics Finite Elements Meshless Techniques Soil Structure Interaction Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering and Hazard Analysis UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyCEE Sitemap Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2021 UW Civil & Environmental Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
