Nancy Allbritton | UW College of Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW College of Engineering Wordmark Logo Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 Programs MyCoE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About us About us Strategic Plan Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Bias Incident, Bias Concern, Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Resources Economic Impact Report Engineering Buildings Employment Visit the College Contact Us K-12 Programs Departments Departments Explore all our departments WILLIAM E. BOEING DEPARTMENT OF Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering PAUL G. ALLEN SCHOOL OF Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Human Centered Design & Engineering Industrial & Systems Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Finder Faculty Honors New Faculty Members Research Centers & Institutes Cluster hiring initiative News & Events News & Events All News Our Stories In the Media The Trend Alumni Newsletter Washington Engineer e-news Dean's Medal for Academic Excellence Event Calendar Engineering Lecture Series Social Media Admission Admission Why UW Engineering? What's my application type? Freshman admission Transfer admission Current UW non-engineering students Graduate admission Professional Master's and certificate programs Visit us Planning ahead for high school students Students Students Engineering Undeclared Students (ENGRUDs) Undergrad Academic Advising Tuition and scholarships Emerging Leaders in Engineering (ELE) Diversity Programs Student Support Student communities, clubs & competition teams Study abroad Career Center @ Engineering Student Policies College of Engineering Student Advisory Council (COESAC) Programs and Funding for Undergraduate Research Prof. & Continuing Ed. Student Guide Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Supporting UW Engineering Interdisciplinary Engineering Building Alumni Connections Additional Links Additional Links Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 Programs MyCoE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 Programs MyCoE Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Finder Nancy Allbritton Professor Bioengineering Frank & Julie Jungers Dean College of Engineering nlallbr@uw.edu (206) 543-1829 LOW 371 Allbritton Lab PubMed Biography Dr. Nancy L. Allbritton joined the University of Washington as the Frank & Julie Jungers Dean of Engineering in November 2019. In this role, she serves as the chief academic officer of the College a top-15 nationally ranked public university program with annual research expenditures exceeding $159 million and provides leadership to over 279 faculty and more than 8,000 students. Under her leadership the College launched an inclusive and wide-ranging strategic planning effort; advanced initiatives to build an inclusive and equitable environment for learning, research, service and outreach; and furthered plans to construct a student focused new facility, the Interdisciplinary Engineering Building, to help address growth in student enrollment. Allbritton is an international expert on multiplexed single-cell assays, microfabricated platforms for high-content cytometry combined with cell sorting, and microengineered stem-cell-based systems for recapitulating human organ-level function. Four companies have been formed based on her research discoveries: Protein Simple (acquired by Bio-Techne in 2014), Intellego, Cell Microsystems, and Altis Biosystems. Allbritton holds an appointment in the UWs Department of Bioengineering. She has been nationally recognized for her research and is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute for Medical & Biological Engineering and the National Academy of Inventors. Education Ph.D. Medical Physics/Medical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1987 M.D., Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 1985 B.S. Physics, Louisiana State University, 1979 Previous appointments Kenan Professor and Chair, Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University, 2009-2019 Kenan Professor, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and North Carolina State University, Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry, Pharmacology, Materials Science and Engineering, Applied Physical Sciences, Molecular Pharmaceutics, 2007-2009 Professor, University of California at Irvine, Departments of Physiology and Biophysics, Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, 1994-2007 Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University, 1989-1994 Research Statement Allbrittons research interests are multidisciplinary and bring together principles and techniques from chemistry, physics, engineering and materials science to develop new assays and technologies for biomedical and clinical applications. Her lab focuses on three key areas: Analytical techniques for single-cell biochemical assays Microfabricated platforms for high-throughput cytometry and isolation of cells for genetic analyses and cloning Microengineered systems for recapitulating organ level function Many of the labs projects and collaborations involve developing and applying new technologies for oncology, gastrointestinal diseases and stem cell research. Select publications Hinman, S.S., Wang, Y., Kim, R., Allbritton, N.L. 2021. In Vitro Generation of Self-Renewing Human Intestinal Epithelia over Planar and Shaped Collagen Hydrogels. Nature Protocols. 16:352382. Petersen, B.V., Gallion, L., Allbritton, N.L., 2020. Silicon Photomultipliers as a Low-Cost Fluorescence Detector for Capillary Electrophoresis. Analytical Chemistry. 92:1368313687. Wheeler, E.C., Vu, A.Q., DiSalvo, M., Einstein, J.M., Ahmed, N., Jin, W., Allbritton, N.L., Yeo, G.W. 2020. Pooled CRISPR screens with image-based phenotyping on microRaft arrays reveals stress granule-regulatory factors. Nature Methods. 17:636-642. Hinman, S.S., Wang, Y., Allbritton, N.L. 2019. Photopatterned Membranes and Chemical Gradients Enable Scalable Phenotypic Organization of PrimaryHuman Colon Epithelial Models. Anal. Chem. 91:15240-15247. Kim, R., Attayek, P.J., Wang, Y., Furtado, K.L., Tamayo, R., Sims, C.E., Allbritton, N.L. 2019. An in vitro intestinal platform with a self-sustaining oxygen gradient to study the human gut/microbiome interface. Biofabrication. 12:015006. Honors & awards 2020 Elected to the Washington State Academy of Sciences 2020 Ralph Adams Award in Bioanalytical Chemistry 2019 Hector Lopez Memorial Lecturer, National Advisory Council for Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering 2018 Distinguished Lecturer, North Carolina Section of the American Chemical Society 2017 Recipient of Edward Kidder Graham Award for Leadership and Service to University of North Carolina and the State of North Carolina 2017 University of North Carolina Inventor of the Year Award 2016 ACS Division of Analytical Chemistry, Award in in Chemical Instrumentation 2015 Elected as a Fellow, American Association of Advancement of Science 2015 Elected as a Fellow, National Academy of Inventors 2010 Elected as a Fellow, American Institute for Medical & Biological Engineering News Message from Dean Allbritton - 06/02/20 "At a time when much feels out of our control there are tangible actions that we can take together to enact change that addresses issues of equity, racism and bias." Read Article WA State Academy of Sciences elects faculty Dean Nancy Allbritton and MSE's Christine Luscombe are among UW faculty who were elected to the Washington State Academy of Sciences. Read Article Meet Nancy Allbritton The nationally recognized leader, educator and researcher joins us on Nov. 1 as the next dean of UW Engineering. Read Article Dr. Nancy Allbritton named dean of UWs College of Engineering Dr. Nancy Allbritton has been named the next Frank & Julie Jungers Dean of the College of Engineering, University of Washington Provost Mark Richards announced today. Read Article More News Faculty & Research Faculty Finder Faculty Honors New Faculty Members Research Centers & Institutes Cluster hiring initiative BioE research areas Biomaterials and Regenerative Medicine Instrumentation, Imaging and Image-guided Therapy Research interests Single-cell enzyme assays Biomedical microdevices Intestine-on-a-chip Array-based cell sorting Automation and instrumentation UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyCoE Log In Privacy Terms 2021 UW College of Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
