Tom Anderson | Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering Skip to main content MyCSE Internal Bldg Check-In Calendar Directory Weekly Hot Sheet Helpful Links Computing CSE Course List Time/Teaching Schedules Academic Calendars UW Homepage About Us Contact Us Quick Links News & Events People Academics Research & Innovation Outreach Support #UWAllen Menu Home News & Events People Academics Research & Innovation Outreach Support #UWAllen Tom Anderson Contact Tom Anderson CSE 646 206-543-9348 tomcs.washington.edu Computer Systems & Networking, Security & Privacy, Wireless & Sensor Systems Areas of interest:Distributed systems, networks, operating systems, security, parallel computing, education Home Research Students Publications Citations Awards Biography Warren Francis and Wilma Kolm Bradley Chair I have recently spent some time thinking about the US system of computer science education, whether it is fit for purpose, and what we might do to fix it. At a recent lecture I gave at Princeton, I put my thoughts into slide form -- the notes for the slides provides the argument in brief, along with a bibliography: pdf with notes, pdf slides only, powerpoint. While at Princeton, I also gave an overview of some of my recent research on operating systems for data centers, which you can find here: pdf and powerpoint. Mike Dahlin and I have the second edition of our undergraduate operating systems textbook, Operating Systems: Principles and Practice. The new version is available now from Barnes and Nobles, Amazon, and your local bookstore. Slides and selected code examples are available. My research concerns the practical issues in constructing robust, secure, and efficient computer systems. I see myself as a generalist -- I am attracted to the biggest problem I can find, regardless of area. My most recent work has been in the area of improving the performance and reliability of data center operating systems, networks, and distributed systems. I've also done research in programming languages, software engineering, system security, file systems, computer architecture, and educational software. I studied philosophy as an undergraduate, and John Rawls was on my thesis committee. Connect With #UWAllen Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington Main Administrative Offices: Paul G. Allen Center, Box 352350 185 E Stevens Way NE Seattle, WA 98195-2350 Directions Student Services: Bill & Melinda Gates Center, Box 352355 3800 E Stevens Way NE Seattle, WA 98195-2355 Contact us: Main Tel: (206) 543-1695 Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu Webmaster: support at cs.washington.edu Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET Undergraduate Advising: ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu Professional Master's Program Advising: masters at cs.washington.edu Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising: grad-advising at cs.washington.edu Copyright 2017-2021 University of Washington - Seattle - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering | All Rights | Privacy | Terms Login (CSENetID)
