Cluster hiring initiative | UW College of Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo UW College of Engineering Wordmark Logo Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 Programs MyCoE UW Links Menu Search Main menu About us About us Strategic Plan Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Bias Incident, Bias Concern, Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Resources Economic Impact Report Engineering Buildings Employment Visit the College Contact Us K-12 Programs Departments Departments Explore all our departments WILLIAM E. BOEING DEPARTMENT OF Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering PAUL G. ALLEN SCHOOL OF Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Human Centered Design & Engineering Industrial & Systems Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Finder Faculty Honors New Faculty Members Research Centers & Institutes Cluster hiring initiative News & Events News & Events All News Our Stories In the Media The Trend Alumni Newsletter Washington Engineer e-news Dean's Medal for Academic Excellence Event Calendar Engineering Lecture Series Social Media Admission Admission Why UW Engineering? What's my application type? Freshman admission Transfer admission Current UW non-engineering students Graduate admission Professional Master's and certificate programs Visit us Planning ahead for high school students Students Students Engineering Undeclared Students (ENGRUDs) Undergrad Academic Advising Tuition and scholarships Emerging Leaders in Engineering (ELE) Diversity Programs Student Support Student communities, clubs & competition teams Study abroad Career Center @ Engineering Student Policies College of Engineering Student Advisory Council (COESAC) Programs and Funding for Undergraduate Research Prof. & Continuing Ed. Student Guide Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Supporting UW Engineering Interdisciplinary Engineering Building Alumni Connections Additional Links Additional Links Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 Programs MyCoE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Diversity, Equity & Inclusion K-12 Programs MyCoE Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Cluster hiring initiative Cluster hiring initiative The College of Engineering cluster hiring initiative was launched in January 2020. The initiative aims to facilitate interdisciplinary strategic hiring within the College to: Bridge gaps in existing faculty expertise where a critical new hire could lead to significant advances and increase reputation in that area. Catalyze, encourage and foster interdisciplinary research across departments, in innovative and exciting fields of study. Increase diversity and improve equity and inclusion. Address enrollment growth and strategic teaching needs. This is a multi-year, faculty-driven process where available positions in the College will be reserved for cluster hires. The final number of approved cluster hires is subject to availability of proviso funds, and Provost approval. View the Request for Proposals and download a proposal template. Cluster hire proposals will be evaluated using a rubric that is grounded in the sections of the proposal template and the discussion prompts and ideas from the Feb. 27, 2020 cluster hire event focused on developing strong cluster hire proposals (UW NetID required). Proposals that demonstrate research innovation and impact and which provide thoughtful, specific content throughout all elements of the proposal will be more highly rated than proposals with general descriptions or typical or run-of-the-mill strategies or ideas. The rubric will also positively rate best practice strategies and ideas which may not be novel but are being newly applied to the cluster hire departments, team, process, etc. Questions? Please review the FAQ. Cycle II selected proposal (UW NetID required) Space Systems and Infrastructure Networks Proposal | DEI Statement Documents and links Request for Proposals Proposal Template Cluster Hiring Initiative Overview (UW NetID required) Brainstorming session notes (UW NetID required) Upcoming events TBD Questions? See the FAQ Email Lucia Ersfeld, luciap@uw.edu Faculty & Research Faculty Finder Faculty Honors New Faculty Members Research Centers & Institutes Cluster hiring initiative Cluster hiring initiative FAQ UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyCoE Log In Privacy Terms 2021 UW College of Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
