Open Positions | Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Accreditation Civil Engineering Major Courses Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses MS Programs PhD Programs PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Resources Research Expand Research menu High-Bay Structures Laboratory Labs Research Areas Student Research Opportunities Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions News Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering View Menu Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Faculty and Staff Open Positions Open Positions current listings Notices of filing notices Notice of Filing of Form ETA 9035E (August 11, 2021) intro The Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering posts active searches at the top of this page when positions are available. The department is an excellent place for scholars and academic professionals alike, offering access to a dedicated and diverse student community, extraordinary research collaborators, ever-expanding facilities, and the advantages of living in one of the greatest cities in the United States. UIC is a major public research university (Carnegie R1) with about 3,000 faculty and more than 34,000 students. It is ranked in the national top 20 by U.S. News & World Reportfor diversity, and it ranks No. 8 in the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Educationlist of best value institutions. This is a recognition given to universities that provide an excellent education compared with net cost. UIC also is a Hispanic-Serving Institution. Chicago epitomizes the modern, livable, vibrant, and diverse city. World-class amenities such as the lakefront, arts and culture venues, festivals, and two international airports make the Chicago area a singularly enjoyable place to live with an affordable cost of living, whether in an 88th-floor condominium downtown or on a tree-lined street in one of the nations finest school districts. The birthplace of the modern skyscraper, Chicago boasts one of the worlds tallest and most iconic skylines, an 8,100-acre park system, and extensive public transit and biking networks. UIC is committed to increasing access to education, employment, programs and services for all. The University of Illinois is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action employer. Minorities, women, veterans, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. UIC is committed to supporting the success of dual-career couples. The University of Illinois conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of contingent offer of employment. Background checks will be performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act. Faculty and Staff Back to main content Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions Quicklinks Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources Room Reservation Form ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts Linked In Twitter Instagram Contact Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering 2095 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3428 Fax: (312) 996-2426 cme@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
