Issa, Mohsen A. | Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Accreditation Civil Engineering Major Courses Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses MS Programs PhD Programs PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Resources Research Expand Research menu High-Bay Structures Laboratory Labs Research Areas Student Research Opportunities Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions News Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Mohsen A. Issa, PhD Professor Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Contact Building & Room: 2095 ERF Address: 842 West Taylor Street, MC 246, Chicago, IL 60607 Office Phone: (312) 996-3432 Email: missa@uic.edu About Research Interests Analysis, design, and testing of structural models and prototypes subjected to static, fatigue and simulated seismic loading. Development of experimental and analytical techniques for monitoring and rating existing highway bridges to assess and evaluate their physical condition, vulnerability and reliability. Development of an optimum structural bridge deck system for rehabilitation (Rapid Replacement of Bridge Decks) and new bridge construction. Size effects, and fractal surface characterization in fracture of cementitious materials. Development of High Performance Concrete: mechanical and durability properties. Failure mechanisms and damage assessment of materials and structures. Strength and durability assessment of advanced composite materials, such as Carbon Fiber Reinforced Polymers (CFRP) for rehabilitation of bridges. Finite element modeling of structures. Research Laboratory The Structural and Concrete Materials Research Laboratory is committed to conducting state-of-the-research on civil engineering structures and concrete materials. Research includes: design and testing of structural models and prototypes; development of experimental and analytical techniques for monitoring and rating existing highway bridges; design of optimum structural slab system for rehabilitation and new bridge construction; scale effects and surface characterization in fracture of cementitious materials; high-performance concrete (HPC) materials; conduct most ASTM testing on concrete and concrete materials; application of advanced composite materials for rehabilitation of civil engineering structures (bridges and buildings); and inspection and evaluation of building and bridge structures. Selected Publications Mohsen A. Issa, Mohammad Alhassan, and Hameed Shabila, High Performance Plain and Fibrous Latex-Modified and Micro-Silica Concrete Overlays, ASCE Journal of Materials Engineering, vol. 20, No. 12, Dec. 2008, 13 pp. Mohsen A. Issa, Atef A. Khalil, Shahidul Islam, and Paul D. Krauss, Mechanical Properties and Durability of High Performance Concrete for Bridge Decks, Precast/Prestress Concrete Institute Journal, July-August 2008, vol. 53, no. 4, pp.108-130. Mohsen A. Issa and Mark J. Saccomonto, Strength Correlation of High Performance Concrete Using Different Sized Specimens, Journal of ASTM International (JAI), Volume 4, Issue 7, July/August 2007, 12 pp. Notable Honors 2000, Award for Excellence in Teaching, UIC 1999, Faculty Research Award, College of Engineering Education Ph. D. Civil Engineering (1986) University of Texas at Arlington M.S. Civil Engineering (1982) University of Texas at Arlington B.S. Civil Engineering (1981) University of Texas at Arlington Quicklinks Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources Room Reservation Form ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts Linked In Twitter Instagram Contact Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering 2095 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3428 Fax: (312) 996-2426 cme@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
