Foster, Craig D. | Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Accreditation Civil Engineering Major Courses Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses MS Programs PhD Programs PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Resources Research Expand Research menu High-Bay Structures Laboratory Labs Research Areas Student Research Opportunities Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions News Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Craig D. Foster, PhD Associate Professor Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Contact Building & Room: 3085 ERF Address: 842 West Taylor Street, MC 246, Chicago, IL 60607 Office Phone: (312) 996-8086 Email: fosterc@uic.edu About Research Interests My research focuses on computer modeling of deformation in solid materials with an emphasis on geomaterials such as rocks, soils, and concrete, as well as biomaterials. In particular, I use finite element analysis to investigate a variety of problems, from plasticity and damage to fracture, shear banding and other types of localized deformation. Current areas of interest include: Evolving discontinuity methods for capturing fracture, shear banding, and other forms of localized deformation Coupled-physics problems, such as couple mechanics and fluid flow in soil biological tissues, and therm-hydro-mechanics of geothermal heat pumps Computational plasticity, damage and constitutive modeling for geomaterials and soft tissues Finite elements and other computational techniques Structural behavior of earthen structural material such as rammed earth and stabilized soil block Rail geotechnics Selected Publications D.A. Weed, M.H. Motamedi, and C.D. Foster. A robust numerical framework for simulating localized failure and fracture propagation in frictional materials.Acta Geotechnica.In press Contreras, A.M. Recuero, P. Jayakumar, C.D. Foster, M.D. Letherwood, D.J. Gorsich and A.A. Shabana Integration of ANCF Continuum-Based Soil Plasticity for Off-Road Vehicle Mobility in Multibody System Dynamics.International Journal of Vehicle Performance. In press M.H. Motamedi, D.A. Weed, and C.D. Foster Numerical simulation of mixed mode (I and II) fracture behavior of pre-cracked rock using the strong discontinuity approachInternational Journal of Solids and Structures,Vol 85-86, 44-56, 2016 A.G. Tennant, C.D. Foster, and B.V. Venkatarama Reddy Detailed experimental review of flexural behavior of cement stabilized soil block masonry.Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering. 10.1061/(ASCE)MT.1943-5533.0001548 , 06016004, 2016. Notable Honors 2015-2016, Academic and Professional Excellence Award, Fulbright 2014, Teaching Award, Christopher Burke Education Ph.D. Civil and Environmental Engineering (2006) Stanford University M.S. Civil and Environmental Engineering (2002) Stanford University B.S. Mathematics (1995) Princeton University Research Currently in Progress Modeling of Rail Track Substructure for Coupling with Vehicle Dynamics Model. 2012-2018. NURail Center, an USDOT OST-R University Transportation Center. Quicklinks Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources Room Reservation Form ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts Linked In Twitter Instagram Contact Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering 2095 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3428 Fax: (312) 996-2426 cme@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
