Kadkhodaei, Sara | Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. University of Illinois Chicago Search the site Toggle Menu Search University of Illinois Chicago Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Accreditation Civil Engineering Major Courses Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses MS Programs PhD Programs PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Resources Research Expand Research menu High-Bay Structures Laboratory Labs Research Areas Student Research Opportunities Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions News Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering College of Engineering Sara Kadkhodaei, PhD Assistant Professor Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Contact Building & Room: 3073 ERF Address: 2095 ERF, 842 West Taylor Street, MC 246, Chicago, IL 60607 Office Phone: (312) 996-3441 Email: sarakad@uic.edu Related Sites: Lab Website Google Scholars Profile About Sara Kadkhodaei is an Assistant Professor in the Civil and Materials Engineering department at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). She received her B.Sc degree in Civil Engineering in 2009 from Sharif University of Technology in Tehran, Iran, and her M.A. and Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry and in Materials Science and Engineering from Brown University in 2013 and 2016, respectively. She was a postdoctoral research associate under the supervision of Prof. A. van de Walle at Brown University until January 2019. Dr. Kadkhodadeis research interest is in the development of theoretical models to predict phase stability and to understand the underlying mechanism for different materials-related phenomena. In addition, her research focuses on the development of software toolkits and high-throughput computational frameworks. Research Interests Ab-initio-based modeling of thermodynamics and kinetics in alloys, ceramics, and inorganic compounds Understanding phase stability, phase transformation, and diffusion-based processes in solids Structure-property prediction via first-principles calculations Artificial intelligence and machine learning in materials property prediction and materials discovery Software development in computational materials science Selected Grants National Science Foundation, Phonon-Assisted Diffusion in Solids from First-Principles: Unraveling a New Mechanism for Fast Diffusion, PI National Science Foundation, Collaborative Research: DMREF: Machine Learning Algorithm Prediction and Synthesis of Next Generation Superhard Functional Materials, co-PI Selected Publications Journal Articles Ali Davariashtiyani, Zahra Kadkhodaie & Sara Kadkhodaei. (2021). Predicting synthesizability of crystalline materials via deep learning. Communications Materials volume 2, Article number: 115 Sara Kadkhodaei & Jorge A. Muoz. (2021). Cluster Expansion of Alloy Theory: A Review of Historical Development and Modern Innovations. JOM Kadkhodaei, S. and Davariashtiyani A. (2020). Phonon-assisted diffusion in bcc phase of titanium and zirconium from first principles. Phys. Rev. Materials 4, 043802 Kadkhodaei, S. and van de Walle, A. (2020). Software tools for thermodynamic calculation of mechanically unstable phases from first-principles data. Computer Physics Communications,Volume 246,January 2020, 106712. Kadkhodaei, S. and van de Walle, A. (2019). A simple local expression for the prefactor in transition state theory. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 150(14), p.144105. Kadkhodaei, S. and van de Walle, A. (2018). First-principles calculations of thermal properties of the mechanically unstable phases of the PtTi and NiTi shape memory alloys. Acta Materialia, 147, pp.296-303. van de Walle, A., Kadkhodaei, S., Sun, R. and Hong, Q. (2017). Epicycle method for elasticity limit calculations. Physical Review B, 95(14). van de Walle, A., Sun, R., Hong, Q. and Kadkhodaei, S. (2017). Software tools for high-throughput CALPHAD from first-principles data. Calphad, 58, pp.70-81. Kadkhodaei, S., Hong, Q. and van de Walle, A. (2017). Free energy calculation of mechanically unstable but dynamically stabilized bcc titanium. Physical Review B, 95(6). van de Walle, A., Hong, Q., Kadkhodaei, S. and Sun, R. (2015). The free energy of mechanically unstable phases. Nature Communications, 6(1). Zhang, T., Li, X., Kadkhodaei, S. and Gao, H. (2012). Flaw Insensitive Fracture in Nanocrystalline Graphene. Nano Letters, 12(9), pp.4605-4610. Service to Community Guest editor on a special issue of the Journal of Materials (JOM): Machine Learning and New Paradigms in Computational Materials Research, July 2021-2022 Member of the Chemistry and Physics of Materials Committee, TMS, 2019-present Co-organizer of the Computational Thermodynamics and Kinetics Symposium at TMS annual meeting, 2020 & 2022 Referee for Acta Materialia, Physical Review Letters, Physical Review B, Physical Review Materials, Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, Computational Materials Science, Scientific Reports, Journal of Alloys and Compounds, Intermetallics, Journal of Physics D, Physica Scripta Grant reviewer for the National Science Foundation (NSF) Developed open-access software tools for the computational materials science community, including P4 software, LAMMPS local Hessian module Notable Honors 2021, College of Engineering Research Award, UIC 2021, College of Engineering Advising Award, UIC 2020, Christopher B. and Susan S. Burke Civil Engineering Faculty Teaching Award, UIC 2014, Materials Research Society (MRS) Graduate Student Award, Materials Research Society 2010-2011, Graduate student fellowship (Prager fellowship), Brown University Education Doctor of Philosophy, Materials Science Engineering Brown University Master of Art, Physical Chemistry Brown University Bachelor of Science, Civil Engineering Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran Selected Presentations Invited Talks Upcoming: How deep learning can help with materials design. In Materials Design and Processing Optimization for Advanced Manufacturing: from Fundamentals to Application Symposium. TMS 2022 Annual Meeting Anharmonic lattice vibration effect on diffusion kinetics in structurally unstable phases. Computational Thermodynamics and Kinetics Symposium. TMS 2021 Meeting, Virtual, 2021. Understanding phase stability and diffusion kinetics of high temperature phases from first-principles, Department of Physics, University of Texas at El Paso, November 2020 Understanding phase stability and diffusion kinetics in mechanically unstable but dynamically stabilized phases from first-principles, PSDK XV: Phase Stability and Diffusion Kinetics symposium, Virtual IMAT 2020, ASM's Annual Meetings, October 2020 Postponed: Crystal Synthesis Prediction via Deep Learning, Materials Design, Synthesis and Manufacturing using Artificial Intelligence, 2020 International Materials Research Society Meeting, August 2020 -- Postponed to Aug. 2021 due to COVID19 pandemic Software tools for thermodynamic calculation of mechanically unstable phases from first-principles data, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA (September 06, 2018) Ab initio Thermodynamics and Kinetics of Materials, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT (March 02, 2018) Ab initio Thermodynamics and Kinetics of Materials, University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth, North Dartmouth, MA (March 01, 2018) Ab initio Thermodynamics and Kinetics of Materials, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL (February 16, 2018) Free Energy Calculation of the Mechanically Unstable but Dynamically Stabilized bcc Phase of Titanium, MRS Graduate Student Award Special Talk Session, Boston, MA (December 2014) Conference Presentations S. Kadkhodaei. Understanding phase stability and diffusion kinetics in structurally unstable but dynamically stabilizedphases from first principles. In CT06.07: Beyond Equilibrium: First-Principles Spin and Structural Dynamics in Materials. MRS 2021 Spring Meeting S. Kadkhodaei and A. van de Walle. Free Energy Calculation of Mechanically Unstable but Dynamically Stabilized Phases. In Computational Thermodynamics and Kinetics Symposium. TMS 2020 Meeting, San Diego, CA, USA, 2020. S.Kadkhodaei and A.vande Walle.A simple local expression for the prefactor in transition state theory. In Advanced Atomistic Algorithms in Materials Science Symposium. MRS Fall 2019 Meeting & Exhibition, BOSTON, MA, USA, 2019. Speaker: Sara Kadkhodaei, Authors: Axel van de Walle, Ruoshi Sun, Qijun Hong, Sara Kadkhodaei, Chiraag Nataraj, Helena Liu, Sayan Samanta, Siya Zhu. Interfacing ab initio calculations, Calphad models, thermodynamic databases, web interfaces and visualization tools. In "Hume-Rothery" Symposium, 2019 TMS Annual Meeting & Exhibition, San Antonio, TX, USA, 2019 S.Kadkhodaei and A.vande Walle. First-principles calculations of thermal Properties of the mechanically unstable phases of PtTi and NiTi shape Memory Alloys, CALPHAD XLVII CONFERENCE, Quertaro. Mxico, 2018 S.Kadkhodaei and A.vande Walle. Free Energy Calculation of Austenite Phase in PtTi and NiTi. InComputational Materials Discovery and Optimization - From Bulk to Materials Interfaces and 2D Materials, 2017 TMS Annual Meeting & Exhibition, San Diego, CA, USA, 2017. S.Kadkhodaei and A.vande Walle. Free Energy Calculation of the Mechanically Unstable but Dynamically Stabilized bcc Phase of Titanium. InComputational Thermodynamics and Kinetics, 2015 TMS Annual Meeting & Exhibition, Orlando, FL, USA, 2015. S. Kadkhodaei and A. van de Walle. Free energy calculation of mechanically unstable but dynamically stabilized bcc titanium. In Mathematical and Computational Aspects of Materials Science, MRS Fall 2014 Meeting & Exhibition, BOSTON, MA, USA, 2014. Quicklinks Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources Room Reservation Form ABET Accreditation Social Media Accounts Linked In Twitter Instagram Contact Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering 2095 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3428 Fax: (312) 996-2426 cme@uic.edu UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 3.0.34 2021 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
