Department of Statistics - Faculty and Lecturers Columbia Home Department of Statistics Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle navigation Department of StatisticsColumbia University About About Us Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Department News Howard Levene Outstanding Teaching Award Minghui Yu Teaching Assistant Award Department Directory Department Calendar Location & Directions Contact Us Research Focus Series Recent Summer Topic Courses Recent Ph.D. Dissertations MA2PHD Research Experiences for Undergraduates Minghui Yu Memorial Conference Centers Applied Statistics Center Center for Applied Probability Grossman Center Computing Consulting Information Programs Undergraduate Programs M.A. Programs Ph.D. Program Certificate Program BA/MA Program MA in Statistiscs option for GSAS PhDs Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEM GSAS-Leadership Alliance Summer Research Program Undergraduate Summer Research Experience Programs Courses Fall Courses Spring Courses Summer Courses Course Descriptions Ph.D. Courses Statistics Seminar Series Recent Summer Topic Courses Help Room Seminars and Events Seminar Listing Statistics Seminar Series Student Seminar Series Minghui Yu Memorial Conference. Mathematical Finance Seminar Series Applied Probability Seminar Series Probability Seminar Series Statistical Machine Learning Seminar Pfizer/ASA/Columbia University Symposium on AI in Clinical Drug Development Focus Series Recent Summer Topic Courses People Faculty Department Directory Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students Program Directors Adjunct Faculty Visiting Faculty Post-docs Visiting Scholars Summer Visitors Alumni Faculty Positions Alumni M.A. Program Alumni Ph.D. Alumni Calendar Department Calendar Search Faculty and LecturersSeniorFaculty The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search A B C D E F G H J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Davis, Richard A. Howard Levene Professor rdavis@stat.columbia.edu more info Close Richard A. Davis Howard Levene ProfessorOffice: Room 1026 SSWPhone: 212-851-2137Email: rdavis@stat.columbia.eduProgram(s): Full-Time Faculty, Senior Faculty, Statistics DepartmentWebsite: http://stat.columbia.edu/~rdavis/Research Interests: Time series analysis, financial time series modeling, extreme value theory, spatial-temporal modeling with environmental applications, applied probability, and stochastic processes.Add to address bookPermanent link to this profile de la Pena, Victor Professor vp@stat.columbia.edu more info Close Victor de la Pena ProfessorOffice: Room 1027 SSWPhone: 212-851-2144Email: vp@stat.columbia.eduProgram(s): Full-Time Faculty, Senior Faculty, Statistics DepartmentWebsite: http://stat.columbia.edu/~vp/ Professor Victor de la Pena's paper ``From Decoupling and Self-Normalization to Machine Learning'' was invited and has been published in the ``Notices of the American Society'' https://www.ams.org/journals/notices/201910/rnoti-p1641.pdf which is distributed to over 30,000 members and member institutions worldwide. Research Interests: Inequalities in Probability and Statistics, Sequential Analysis, Boundary Crossing and Change Point Problems, U-Statistics and Processes, Self-Normalized Processes, General Dependence Structures Including Martingales, Decoupling, Copulas. Managing Risk in Complex Systems, Banking, Actuarial Sciences, Earth Sciences, Climatology Global Warming. http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=9W4bmC4AAAAJ&hl=enAdd to address bookPermanent link to this profile Visiting Professors The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search No results. Junior Faculty, Tenure Track The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search No results. Junior Faculty, Non-Tenure Track The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search No results. Lecturers in Discipline The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search No results. AffiliatedFaculty The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search Dalal, Siddhartha R. Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of Professional Studies sd2803@columbia.edu more info Close Siddhartha R. Dalal Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of Professional StudiesEmail: sd2803@columbia.eduProgram(s): Affiliated Faculty, Statistics Department Siddhartha (Sid) Dalal is a Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia University. Prior to Columbia he was Chief Data Scientist and Sr. VP at AIG in charge of R&D that included creation and application of AI, Statistics and CS to Computer Vision, Natural Language Processing and Sensors/IOT for managing risks. He came to AIG from RAND Corporation where was the CTO. Sid also was VP of Research at Xerox overseeing their worldwide imaging and software services research, and Bell Labs and Bellcore/SAIC as Chief Scientist and Executive Director. Sid has an MBA and a Ph.D. from the University of Rochester with over 100 peer reviewed publications, patents and monographs covering the areas of risk analysis, medical informatics Bayesian statistics and economics, image processing and sensor networks. At Rand he was responsible for the creation of technology and spinning off of Praedicat, Inc., a casualty insurance analytics company. Sid is a member of US Army Science Board, an advisory board of 20 scientists appointed by Secretary of Defense to advise US Army on technology. He has received several awards including from IEEE, ASA and ASQ. Link to Resume Add to address bookPermanent link to this profile AdjunctFaculty The results are being filtered by the character: D Clear Search Dolgoarshinnykh, Regina Adjunct Assistant Professor regina@stat.columbia.edu more info Close Regina Dolgoarshinnykh Adjunct Assistant ProfessorOffice: Room 926 SSWEmail: regina@stat.columbia.eduProgram(s): Adjunct Faculty, Statistics DepartmentWebsite: http://www.stat.columbia.edu/~regina/Add to address bookPermanent link to this profile Donoghue, Anthony Adjunct Assistant Professor ad2798@columbia.edu more info Close Anthony Donoghue Adjunct Assistant ProfessorOffice: Room 901A SSWEmail: ad2798@columbia.eduProgram(s): Adjunct Faculty, Statistics DepartmentAdd to address bookPermanent link to this profile Quick LinksAcademic Programs Undergraduate Programs M.A. Statistics Programs M.A. in Mathematical Finance M.S. in Actuarial Science M.A. in Quantitative Methods in the Social Sciences M.S. in Data Science Ph.D. Program BA/MA Program Department Directory Hiring Faculty Positions Staff Hiring Seminars Department News Computing Help Room Contact Us Upcoming Events Columbia University In the City of New York 116th Street and Broadway, New York, NY 10027 2014 Columbia University Website by Sunray Computer DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS Columbia University Room 1005 SSW, MC 4690 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212.851.2132 Fax: 212.851.2164 Contact Us Department of Statistics on LinkedIn
