Columbia University - Department of Statistics M.A. Programs - Alumni Profiles Columbia Home Master of Arts in Statistics Columbia University in the City of New York M.A. ProgramsDepartment of Statistics Home About General Info Faculty M.A. Staff Location and Directions Videos of Students and Alumni Videos of Faculty Events Prospective Students Program Requirements Application Procedures Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Admissions FAQs Tuition and Fees BA/MA Program Option for GSAS PhDs Scholarship & Funding Opportunities Student Profiles Curriculum Required Courses Approved Electives Columbia Course Directory STAT GR5398: MA Mentored Research Stat GR5399: Statistical Fieldwork Careers Career Management Resources Summer Internships Current Students FAQs Registration Academic Advising MA to PhD MA Mentored Research Student Life Student Resources Graduation Find Essential Info M.A. Students Only Alumni Alumni Resources GSAS Alumni Association Alumni Profiles Recent Alumni Videos Alumni Profiles For more Alumni Profiles, click here. Our MA in Statistics graduates pursue diverse internships and professional roles in a number of industries. Alumni serve many valuable roles and provide mentoring, internships, and career opportunities to students. Every year members of our alumni network engage with students and participate in our seminars, webinars, and networking events. Jiun Kim, Data Scientist at Audible Jiun Kim Graduation: 2014 Current title: Data Scientist at Audible, an Amazon company Career highlights: Jiun is currently a data scientist at Audible. With a vast amount of data, my days are filled with designing, developing, and evaluating predictive models for interesting research topics. Previously she worked as a statistical consultant at the United Nations. There, she developed statistical/econometrics models, of which are published, to predict uncertainties such as disaster risk and unemployment rates, and understand the statistical inferences of these impacts on human behavior and socioeconomic segmentation. She also worked for a financial firm in London and government offices in Korea. Statistics M.A. program at Columbia equipped me with not only statistical knowledge and programming skills but also strategic and critical thinking. Most importantly, friendship and social network with brilliant and inspiring minds.Timothy Haley, Associate, JP Morgan Timothy Haley Graduation: 2014 Current title: Vice President, JP Morgan Career highlights: Promoted to Manager at Fox Cable Networks and most recently to Vice President at J.P. Morgan Developed statistical models and a modeling codebase for Asset & Wealth Management at J.P. Morgan Developed statistical models for MEC (a GroupM company), and presented analyses to clients The M.A. in Statistics program at Columbia challenged me intellectually and provided me with the core skills necessary to obtain, and succeed at, my current and previous jobs in statistical modeling.Sharona Sankar-King Sharona Sankar-King Graduation: 1998 Current title: EVP Head of Marketing Science BBDO New York Career highlights: Sharona Sankar-King joined BBDO New York in September 2016 in the newly created role of EVP, Head of Marketing Science with the goal to deepen and expand BBDO New Yorks data and analytic capabilities. Sharona brings more than 20 years experience to her new role. Those experiences include working with clients and products in telecommunications, retail, travel, financial services, healthcare, pharma, automotive, packaged goods, eCommerce, energy, technology and more. She was most recently Managing Partner, North America Practice Lead of Digital & Advanced Analytics, at MEC where her extensive experience in developing and productizing strategic analytic solutions for top tier clients allowed her to develop MECs digital attribution platform. Prior to working at MEC, Sharona served as VP, Strategy and Analytics, at Rapp Collins Worldwide and Group Director of Digital Analytics at Experian. Sharona earned her Masters of Applied Statistics from Columbia University and considers herself as much of a Marketing Strategist as a Statistician/Data Scientist. The M.A. program at Columbia prepared me for the real application of advanced analytics, which gave me the foundation for my career. Home About General Info Faculty M.A. Staff Location and Directions Videos of Students and Alumni Videos of Faculty Events Prospective Students Program Requirements MA Statistics Program Requirements Good Academic Standing Application Procedures Application Checklist Admissions Decisions Admissions FAQs Tuition and Fees MA Program in Statistics: Tuition and Fees BA/MA Program Option for GSAS PhDs Scholarship & Funding Opportunities Student Profiles Curriculum Required Courses Approved Electives Columbia Course Directory STAT GR5398: MA Mentored Research Stat GR5399: Statistical Fieldwork Careers Career Management Resources Summer Internships Current Students FAQs Registration Academic Advising MA to PhD MA Mentored Research Student Life Student Resources Graduation Find Essential Info M.A. Students Only Alumni Alumni Resources GSAS Alumni Association Alumni Profiles Recent Alumni Videos Search Recent Student AchievementsCongratulations to Simran Padam for being awarded a Shardashish Interschool Fellowship! A graduate student in the MA in Statistics program at Columbia University, Simran...Read moreStudent Videos Watch interviews of current students and alumni about their experience in the MA Statistics program at Columbia. View MoreFaculty Videos Watch interviews of faculty about their courses in the MA Statistics Program at Columbia. View More Columbia University In the City of New York 116th Street and Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Department of Statistics, Main Office Columbia University SSW Building, Room 1005, MC 4690 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Department of Statistics, M.A. Program Columbia University Watson Hall, MC 6006 612 West 115th Street, 6th Floor New York, NY 10025 Contact Us Department of Statistics on LinkedIn More information on Student Policies can be found here. Content Copyright Columbia University Unless Noted | Website by Sunray Computer
