Martin Schultz | Computer Science Skip to main content Yale University Search form Search this site Computer Science Main Menu Sub Menu Home Academics People Department Information News Research Calendar Research Internship Program Open Positions Stay Connected Internal CS Only You are hereHome People Martin Schultz Martin Schultz Professor Emeritus of Computer Science; Research Professor of Computer ScienceAddress:51 Prospect St, New Haven, CT 06511-8937203-432-1202martin.schultz@yale.eduMartin Schultzs primary research interest is in high-performance computing. During recent years, he has concentrated on the application of parallel architectures ranging from massively parallel processors to clusters of workstations and PCs as well as P2P solutions on the internet. His research interests include topics in algorithm design, analysis and implementation, parallel programming environments, and parallel architectures. Typical applications come from biomedical computing, computational biology, bioinformatics, and financial analytics as well as the physical sciences and engineering. Professor Schultz collaborates with academic and industrial researchers in Biology, Medicine, Economics, and Physical Sciences. Representative Publications: Graphically-Enabled Integration of Bioinformatics Tools Allowing Parallel Execution, with K. Cheung, P. Miller, A. Sherman, S. Weston, E. Stratman, M.Snyder, and A.Kumar, in J.M. Overhage, ed., Converging Information, Technology, and Health Care: Proceedings of the 2000 AMIA Annual Symposium, November, 2000. Parameter Choices for ADI-like Methods on Parallel Computers, with C.C. Douglas and S. Malhotra, Computational and Applied Mathematics, 17:217-231, 1998. First and Second Order Methods for Rapid, Coarse, Distributed Load Balancing, with S. Muthukrishnan and B. Ghosh, Proceedings of ACM SPAA 1996, Padova, Italy, Journal of Mathematical Systems Theory, Invited SPAA96 issue Efficient Parallel Programming with Linda, with A. Deshpande, Proceedings of the Supercomputing92 Conference, November 1992. Yale University Copyright 2021 Yale University All rights reserved Privacy policy Accessibility at Yale Stay Connected: Facebook Twitter
