Carl Yerger | Davidson Skip to main content Site search keywords Search search menu Main navigation About Fast Facts History & Traditions Leadership Statement of Purpose #DAVIDSONTRUE Offices and Services Academics Majors & Minors Advising & Support Internships Research Study Abroad Academic Calendars Academic Departments Admission & Aid Apply Visit Diversity & Access Explore Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Campus Life Activities & Organizations Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Leadership & Service Religious & Spiritual Life International Student Experience Arts After Davidson Careers & Outcomes Fellowships Volunteer Apply Visit Give Apply Visit Give Utility Links Alumni & Families Athletics Library Diversity News & Events Directories COVID-19 Tools and Resources for New Students Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Business & Community Breadcrumb Home people Carl Yerger Carl Yerger Chair & Associate Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science Education Ph.D. Georgia Institute of Technology Certificate of Advanced Study University of Cambridge, UK B.A. Harvey Mudd College Areas of Expertise Structural Graph Theory Ramsey Theory Graph Coloring Background I started at Davidson in 2010, after completing a doctorate at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Algorithms, Combinatorics, and Optimization. I hold a Certificate of Advanced Study in Mathematics from the University of Cambridge and a B.S. in Mathematics with a humanities concentration in Economics from Harvey Mudd College. In 2014-2015, I was the Shelley Visiting Assistant Professor at Carnegie Mellon University. My research interests are in structural graph theory, combinatorics and sports analytics. I have co-authored publications with Davidson students in journals such as Discrete Mathematics, Journal of Combinatorial Optimization, Discrete Applied Mathematics, Graphs and Combinatorics, Involve, and Journal of Sports Science and Coaching. I enjoy teaching my seminar in game theory and mathematical finance as well as courses in calculus, discrete mathematics and theoretical computer science. I am co-Editor-in-Chief of the American Mathematics Competitions AMC 10/12 Exam and support other high school mathematics competitions. Since 2010, I have served on the coordinating committee of the Charlotte Math Club, which serves mathematically curious students in grades 4-12 in the Charlotte area. I am particularly excited about my role as mentor for Davidsons third cohort of Posse Foundation scholars. I also assist students in the department who are interested in math and computer science contests. I have been awarded a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, NSF Graduate Research Fellowship and a Winston Churchill Foundation Scholarship. My broad interests include tennis, duplicate bridge and serving as president of the United States Korfball Federation. Contact cayerger@davidson.edu 704-894-2904 Department(s) Mathematics and Computer Science Box 7129 Chambers 3031 Davidson College The Davidson College wordmark. Davidson, North Carolina 28035 USA (704) 894-2000 Contact Information Work at Davidson Maps & Directions Contact Us Follow the Latest at #DavidsonCollege Social Hub Instagram Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Davidson College Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Accessibility College Policies & Procedures
