Tabitha Peck | Davidson Skip to main content Site search keywords Search search menu Main navigation About Fast Facts History & Traditions Leadership Statement of Purpose #DAVIDSONTRUE Offices and Services Academics Majors & Minors Advising & Support Internships Research Study Abroad Academic Calendars Academic Departments Admission & Aid Apply Visit Diversity & Access Explore Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Campus Life Activities & Organizations Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Leadership & Service Religious & Spiritual Life International Student Experience Arts After Davidson Careers & Outcomes Fellowships Volunteer Apply Visit Give Apply Visit Give Utility Links Alumni & Families Athletics Library Diversity News & Events Directories COVID-19 Tools and Resources for New Students Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Business & Community Breadcrumb Home people Tabitha Peck Tabitha Peck Associate Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science Education Ph.D., M.S University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill B.S. Bucknell University Areas of Expertise Virtual Reality Human-Computer Interaction Avatars Background After completing my Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, I then completed a post-doctoral research position at the University of Barcelona and was a visiting faculty member at Duke University. While at Davidson College, I have contributed to the creation of the Computer Science major, am the faculty liaison for NCWIT, and enjoy teaching both introductory programming and upper-level electives. As an educator, I focus on making computer science accessible to all students. Both my teaching practices and research focus on minimizing biases and stereotype threats that currently harm students of color and women in STEM disciplines. Research I received an NSF CAREER Award (2020-2025) and am the head of the Davidson Research in Virtual Environments (DRIVE) lab. My research focuses on two main areas: 1) how to enable people to naturally move around virtual environments, and 2) the psychological effects of having a self-avatar within virtual environments. My research with students has been published in numerous venues including IEEE VR, IEEE ISMAR, and ACM CHI. Our research projects have received international recognition including a best poster award at IEEE VR 2019, and a nomination for a best paper award at IEEE VR 2020. I am actively involved in the virtual reality research community and have served in numerous conference planning chair roles including conference paper program chair at IEEE VR 2020, journal paper program chair at IEEE VR 2021, and co-chair of HUCAPP 2021. I am a review editor forFrontiers in Virtual Reality, regularly serve on international program committees, and review for numerous conferences and journals. Contact tapeck@davidson.edu 704-894-2282 Department(s) Mathematics and Computer Science Box 7004 Watson 290 Davidson College The Davidson College wordmark. Davidson, North Carolina 28035 USA (704) 894-2000 Contact Information Work at Davidson Maps & Directions Contact Us Follow the Latest at #DavidsonCollege Social Hub Instagram Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Davidson College Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Accessibility College Policies & Procedures
