Bryce Wiedenbeck | Davidson Skip to main content Site search keywords Search search menu Main navigation About Fast Facts History & Traditions Leadership Statement of Purpose #DAVIDSONTRUE Offices and Services Academics Majors & Minors Advising & Support Internships Research Study Abroad Academic Calendars Academic Departments Admission & Aid Apply Visit Diversity & Access Explore Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Campus Life Activities & Organizations Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Leadership & Service Religious & Spiritual Life International Student Experience Arts After Davidson Careers & Outcomes Fellowships Volunteer Apply Visit Give Apply Visit Give Utility Links Alumni & Families Athletics Library Diversity News & Events Directories COVID-19 Tools and Resources for New Students Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Business & Community Breadcrumb Home people Bryce Wiedenbeck Bryce Wiedenbeck Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science Education M.S., Ph.D. University of Michigan B.A. Swarthmore College Areas of Expertise Game Theory Agent-Based Modeling Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Background I joined the Mathematics and Computer Science department at Davidson in 2019, after four years as a visiting assistant professor at Swarthmore. I teach introductory and upper-level classes across the computer science curriculum ranging from theory to artificial intelligence to systems. My research in computational game theory lies at the boundary of computer science and economics, and straddles the CS subfields of theory, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. I use game theory to analyze incentive problems that arise in computer science applications, and also use computational methods to enable better game theory. This involves designing agent-based simulations to gather data about multi-agent systems and applying machine learning to build game-theoretic models and predict behavior. I am also interested in algorithms for playing and solving games that people play, as well as games that model economic interactions. My main hobbies are board games and sports, especially ultimate Frisbee. Im almost always happy to take a quick break to play a game, toss a disc, or just have a chat; so please stop by my office and say hi! Contact brwiedenbeck@davidson.edu 704-894-2629 Department(s) Mathematics and Computer Science Watson 275 Davidson College The Davidson College wordmark. Davidson, North Carolina 28035 USA (704) 894-2000 Contact Information Work at Davidson Maps & Directions Contact Us Follow the Latest at #DavidsonCollege Social Hub Instagram Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Davidson College Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Accessibility College Policies & Procedures
