Justin Troyka | Davidson Skip to main content Site search keywords Search search menu Main navigation About Fast Facts History & Traditions Leadership Statement of Purpose #DAVIDSONTRUE Offices and Services Academics Majors & Minors Advising & Support Internships Research Study Abroad Academic Calendars Academic Departments Admission & Aid Apply Visit Diversity & Access Explore Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Campus Life Activities & Organizations Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Leadership & Service Religious & Spiritual Life International Student Experience Arts After Davidson Careers & Outcomes Fellowships Volunteer Apply Visit Give Apply Visit Give Utility Links Alumni & Families Athletics Library Diversity News & Events Directories COVID-19 Tools and Resources for New Students Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Business & Community Breadcrumb Home people Justin Troyka Justin Troyka Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science Education Ph.D. Dartmouth College B.A. Carleton College Areas of Expertise Combinatorics Background I am a Visiting Assistant Professor in mathematics, researching enumerative and algebraic combinatorics. After earning my Ph.D. at Dartmouth with advisor Sergi Elizalde, I worked in a postdoctoral position for two years at York University, in Toronto, where I researched permutation patterns with Neal Madras. I'm excited to be here at Davidson for two years and teach fun and interesting classes! In my research, I like to count things such as permutations, partitions, and graphs, often with the help of symmetric functions and other algebraic objects. My favorite questions in this area are asymptotic: for instance, I have proved results about how many "very large" cyclic permutations have a given descent set, and I have proved a conjecture on the number of "very large" split graphsin both cases, "very large" means we are taking the limit as the size of the structure is going to infinity. In much of this work I have applied analysis and probability to answer questions about combinatorics. If you're a student in one of my classes, don't hesitate to email me if you have any questionsI look forward to meeting you! Contact jutroyka@davidson.edu 704-894-2419 Department(s) Mathematics and Computer Science Box 7129 Chambers 3041 Pronouns:he/him/his Davidson College The Davidson College wordmark. Davidson, North Carolina 28035 USA (704) 894-2000 Contact Information Work at Davidson Maps & Directions Contact Us Follow the Latest at #DavidsonCollege Social Hub Instagram Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Davidson College Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Accessibility College Policies & Procedures
