Carlos Seminario | Davidson Skip to main content Site search keywords Search search menu Main navigation About Fast Facts History & Traditions Leadership Statement of Purpose #DAVIDSONTRUE Offices and Services Academics Majors & Minors Advising & Support Internships Research Study Abroad Academic Calendars Academic Departments Admission & Aid Apply Visit Diversity & Access Explore Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Campus Life Activities & Organizations Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Leadership & Service Religious & Spiritual Life International Student Experience Arts After Davidson Careers & Outcomes Fellowships Volunteer Apply Visit Give Apply Visit Give Utility Links Alumni & Families Athletics Library Diversity News & Events Directories COVID-19 Tools and Resources for New Students Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Business & Community Breadcrumb Home people Carlos Seminario Carlos Seminario Adjunct Assistant Professor of Computer Science Education Ph.D., M.S. University of North Carolina at Charlotte M.S., M.S. Georgia Institute of Technology B.S. St. Mary's University Areas of Expertise Recommender Systems Software Development Background My teaching interests include computer science and my research interests include computer science education, recommender systems, and data mining. I am also learning my way into Makerspace projects using my Raspberry Pi 2. Before coming to Davidson, I served as a staff researcher at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte working on a data science Learning Analytics project in the College of Computing and Informatics. Prior to obtaining my Ph.D., I enjoyed a successful career in software development as well as software development and services delivery management, primarily in the finance industry and in government-funded research and development software and hardware development. I worked for 26 years at IBM Corporation and two years as a private consultant at a Fortune 50 banking institution, then six years at Georgia Tech Research Institute. I am also a PMI-certified project management professional. Research For my doctoral research in computing and information systems I focused on the study of attacks on recommender systems. My recommender system work has been published and presented at various stateside and international conferences such as the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Recommender Systems; User Modeling, Adaption, and Personalization (UMAP); and Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society (FLAIRS). As a Ph.D. student at UNCC, I received the 2014-15 Giles Dissertation-Year Fellowship award from the graduate school and the 2011 Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award from the College of Computing and Informatics. I also co-authored (with Celine Latulipe and N. Bruce Long) the paper "Structuring Flipped Classes with Lightweight Teams and Gamification" that won the Best Paper award at the 2015 ACM SigCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education. Contact caseminario@davidson.edu 704-894-2937 Department(s) Mathematics and Computer Science Box 7129 Watson 288 Davidson College The Davidson College wordmark. Davidson, North Carolina 28035 USA (704) 894-2000 Contact Information Work at Davidson Maps & Directions Contact Us Follow the Latest at #DavidsonCollege Social Hub Instagram Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Davidson College Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Accessibility College Policies & Procedures
