Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur - News Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur |About IIT Kharagpur A- A= A+ | A A | Academics Admission UGPGPh.DWelcome FreshersAcademic Units Faculty of Engineering and Architecture (FoE&A)Faculty of Bio-Technology and Bio-Sciences (BTBS)Faculty of Sciences (FoS)Faculty of Humanities, Social & Economic SciencesFaculty of Interdisciplinary Sciences & EngineeringSchool of ManagementSchool of LawLibrary FacilityAcademic Programs ProgramsUG Curricula Old (Admission year till 2020)UG Curricula New (Admission year 2021 onwards)PG CurriculaCalendar 21-22Calendar 21-22 (1st Year)Calender 21-22 (Other than 1st Year)Interdisciplinary Programs International Relations Post Doctoral Fellowship Continuing Education Certificate of Excellence in Research Research Research Areas Research Facilities Research Initiatives Innovations Entrepreneurship IncubationSTEPE CellAcademicTechnology Developed IP Policies Sponsored Research PMRF Students Admission Under GraduatePost GraduatePh.DRules and RegulationsPlacements Student Achievements Financial Assistance Prospective Students Exchange Students Student Life Student Activity CenterSports and GamesSocial and CulturalTechno ManagementEvents and FestivalsHalls of ResidenceHealth and WellnessEateriesStudent Insurance PolicyStudent News Hall Management Centre Student Brotherhood Fund Application for LoanRules and RegulationsStudents Gymkhana Conduct Rules Anti-Ragging MeasuresStudent & Guardian UndertakingGeneral Rules & RegulationsFAQs Faculty Faculty Members in News Prospective Faculty Members Why Join IIT KGPJob OpeningsFaculty Directory Campus Services Health & WellnessSchoolsBank/ATMCampus MapCampus Life Technology ClubGymAquatic SocietyTechnology Film SocietyEvents and FestivalsHeads of Departments Faculty Handbook Industry Placement Licensing Technology Developed Consultancies IP Policies Sponsored Research CSR Initiatives AI4ICPS Home >Faculty >Faculty Members in News Faculty Faculty Members in News Faculty Handbook Prospective Faculty Members Heads of Departments Faculty Directory Campus Services Campus Life Faculty Members in News * Use Firefox. For Chrome right click open in new tab for "click here" links. NDLI & SandHI at 2020 INTERNATIONAL BOOK FAIR KOLKATA Jan 17, 2020 The National Digital Library of India (NDLI) IIT Kharagpur and the Science and heritage initiative (SandHI) Phase II Project Outreach & Dissemination are jointly proud to have their presence in the forthcoming 44th International Book fair at Central Park Mela Ground, Salt Lake City, Kolkata from January 29, 2020 till February 09, 2020. The stalls for NDLI & SandHI IIT Kharagpur are 291 and 253, respectively. Read more > < Read less Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering and currently the Dean (Planning & Coordination) has been appointed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India as the Director, National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE), Mumbai. Oct 18, 2019 Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering and currently the Dean (Planning & Coordination) has been appointed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India as the Director, National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE), Mumbai Read more > < Read less Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been elected as a Fellow of Royal Society of Biology''s Council (FRSB). Oct 14, 2019 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been elected as a Fellow of Royal Society of Biology's Council (FRSB). Read more > < Read less Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial System Engineering and currently the Dean (Planning & Coordination) has been inducted as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences India. Oct 14, 2019 Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial System Engineering and currently the Dean (Planning & Coordination) has been inducted as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Somnath Bhattacharyya, Professor & Head, Department of Mathematics has been inducted as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences India. Oct 14, 2019 Prof. Somnath Bhattacharyya, Professor and Head, Department of Mathematics has been inducted as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences India. Read more > < Read less Dr. Atul Jain, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering judged 1st (Individual Category) for the challenge area "Joints in Composite Structure" in the Dare to Dream DRDO Innovation Contest. Sep 17, 2019 Dr. Atul Jain, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering judged 1st (Individual Category) for the challenge area "Joints in Composite Structure" in the Dare to Dream DRDO Innovation Contest. Read more > < Read less Dr. Sandip Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been selected for the INAE Young Engineer Award 2019 by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Sep 16, 2019 Dr. Sandip Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been selected for the INAE Young Engineer Award 2019 by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Read more > < Read less Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been awarded Basanti Devi Amir Chand Prize by Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi for 2018. Sep 4, 2019 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has beenawarded Basanti Devi Amir Chand Prize by Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi for 2018. Read more > < Read less Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been selected for the J. C. Bose Fellowship of Science & Engineering Research Board, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Aug 14, 2019 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been selected fortheJ. C. Bose Fellowship of Science & Engineering Research Board, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Dr. Puneet Kumar Patra, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering has been awarded the INSA Medal for Young Scientists for 2019 as the highest recognition of promise, creativity and excellence as evidenced by research work carried out in India. Jul 29, 2019 Dr. Puneet Kumar Patra, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering has been awarded the INSA Medal for Young Scientists for 2019 as the highest recognition of promise, creativity and excellence as evidenced by research work carried out in India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Saibal Gupta, Professor and Head, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been awarded the prestigious INSA Teachers Award (2019) for having encouraged students to take up careers in Science and Technology and being consistently imparting high level of teaching. Jul 29, 2019 Prof. Saibal Gupta, Professor and Head, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been awarded the prestigious INSA Teachers Award (2019) for having encouraged students to take up careers in Science and Technology and being consistently imparting high level of teaching. Read more > < Read less Prof. Chandan Chakraborty, Department of Electrical Engineering has been selected for the IEEE Bimal Bose Award. Jul 31, 2019 Prof. Chandan Chakraborty, Department of Electrical Engineering has been selected for the IEEE Bimal Bose Award. Read more > < Read less Prof. Chandan Chakraborty, Department of Electrical Engineering has been appointed as founding Editor in Chief of IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Industrial Electronics until the end of 2022. Jun 25, 2019 Prof. Chandan Chakraborty, Department of Electrical Engineering has been appointed as founding Editor in Chief of IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Industrial Electronics until the end of 2022. Read more > < Read less ARP-ID Scholars to present SMART INDIA at GaTECH Atlanta Apr 19, 2019 RS Arpan R. Paul RS Vidhu Bansal, RS Deepanjan Saha, and RS Amarjeet Kumar of the Department of Architecture & Regional Planning - IIT Kharagpur and RS Md Saddam, RS Sunny Bansal RS Kuldeep Kavta and RS Shivangi Singh Parmar of RCG School of Infrastructure Design & Management, IIT Kharagpur for attending, and presenting the FINAL REVIEW SEMINARS on Smart India: PROJECT VARANASI at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, USA (April 22 - 23 2019). The event is supported by Georgia INDO-US CHAMBER OF COMMERSE USA. Great contributions by Dr. Arkopal Goswami of Ranbir & Chitra Gupta School of SIDM and Dr. Saikat Paul of ARP, IIT Kharagpur. Read more > < Read less ARCHITECTURE re-awarded NIRF # 1 Apr 11, 2019 The Department of Architecture and Regional Planning (ARP), Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur has been re-awarded the National institutional ranking Framework (NIRF) # 1 and earmarked as the top Architecture Institute in the country. The department conveys its gratitude to its pool of distinguished Alumnus around the world, and its brigade of great faculty, staff, scholars and students. ARP is once again proud to make IIT Kharagpur prouder. Read more > < Read less Prof. Mrityunjoy Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering has been selected as Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) Chair Professor for two years w.e.f 1st April 2019. Apr 1, 2019 Prof. Mrityunjoy Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering has been selected as Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) Chair Professor for two years w.e.f 1st April 2019. Read more > < Read less Professor Sirshendu De, Department of Chemical Engineering has been selected for NRDC National Societal Innovation Award - 2018, for his invention Low Cost Arsenic Removal Filter for Drinking Water. Feb 8, 2019 Professor Sirshendu De, Department of Chemical Engineering has been selected for NRDC National Societal Innovation Award - 2018, for his invention Low Cost Arsenic Removal Filter for Drinking Water. Read more > < Read less Prof. Anil K. Bhowmick, Professor of Eminence, Rubber Technology Center has been selected for the 2019 Fred E. Schwab International Education Award of the Society of Plastics Engineers, USA. Prof. Bhowmick is the first person working in Asia to have been selected for this award. Jan 29, 2019 Prof. Anil K. Bhowmick, Professor of Eminence, Rubber Technology Center has been selected for the 2019 Fred E. Schwab International Education Award of the Society of Plastics Engineers, USA.Prof. Bhowmick is the first person working in Asia to have been selected for this award Read more > < Read less Prof. Sudip Misra, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected for the conferment of "Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship" by INAE. Jan 28, 2019 Prof. Sudip Misra, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected for the conferment of "Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship" by INAE. Read more > < Read less NDLI & SandHI IIT Kharagpur present stall at 43rd International Book Fair Kolkata Jan 23, 2019 THE NATIONAL DIGITAL LIBRARY OF INDIA in association with THE SCIENCE & HERITAGE INITIATIVE, IIT KHARAGPUR presents an OUTREACH & DISSEMINATION STALL At43th Kolkata International Book Fair, Central Park, Salt Lake (Bidhannagar) KolkataJanuary 31, 2019 to February 11, 2019The National Digital Library of India (NDLI: https://www.ndl.gov.in/) is anintegration platform for schools, colleges, universities, teachers,students, lecturers, differentially abled pupils and anybody who has awillingness to learn. We hope to facilitate e-learning for students everywhere with the help of technologically enhanced learning design and the support of Digital India. Over the past two years, NDLI has traversed the length and breadth of the country to educate, enable and empower schools, colleges, public libraries and various other institutions in every state with the necessary infrastructure to digitize as well as access and browse the library whilst parallely generating a whooping 2crore content base in 60+ formats from premier institutions as well as collections across the world.The library today contains e-books, videos, audio-books, tutorials,question-papers and most other formats that learners of all ages can accessanytime, and from anywhere. This online library is building up to become atreasure-trove of India's literature, research, culture and well asknowledge repositories in almost all subjects and across the entireproficiency spectrum. To this end, NDLI is actively seeking to digitize India's knowledge heritageacross multiple sectors to make it available to the world.The Kolkata Book Fair being an amalgamation of readers, learners, publishers and knowledgeenthusiasts was hence a perfect fit with the NDLI mission. We hope to reachout to publishers with our digitization efforts and readers of all ages withour treasury of content to come together and create a beautiful, symbiotic,immersive environment where everyone involved can learn, share and grow. The association with The Science & Heritage initiative of IIT Kharagpur is an effort to jointly present the outreach and dissemination activity and the effort shall definitely go a long way create sustained, meaningful and deep impacts on the society as a whole. Read more > < Read less Setting up of THE ACADEMY OF CLASSICAL & FOLK ARTS Jan 2, 2019 Setting up of THE ACADEMY OF CLASSICAL & FOLK ARTS - at IIT KharagpurAn International Symposium on Creativity and Freedom, will be held on February 06, 2019 at The India International Center (IIC), Lodhi Road, New Delhi. The symposium will earmark a Curtain raiser program for the launching of THE ACADEMY OF CLASSICAL & FOLK ARTS ARTS at IIT Kharagpur.The Academy has been planned as an extended part of The Science and Heritage initiative (SandHI), IIT Kharagpur and initiated by the major Alumni funding, IIT Kharagpur. The Academy, in addition to the key/ ambit collaboration with SHRUTINANDAN, shall have other important collaborations with a) The National Museum Institute, Delhi; b) Indira Gandhi National Center of Arts (IGNCA), Delhi; c) National Gallery of Modern Art, Delhi; d) Sangeet Natak Academy, under the Ministry of Culture, GoI; d) Government school of Arts, Indian Museum, Kolkata; e) Kala Bhawan, BHU through IIT (BHU) and other international Institutes like MITHAS (MIT-Cambridges Heritage of the Art of South Asia); City Art Council, Japan under Kyoto University, Japan; International Association of Art History (CIHA) in China and Japan; Germanisches National Museum, Numberg; Department of Cultural History and Museum Studies, Danube University, Krems, Austria; and CIHA, Universite Paris Nanterre.The event is sponsored by Center of International Modern Art (CIMA); The Ashoka University, Delhi; Aga Khan Foundation and others. Read more > < Read less Prof. Baidurya Bhattacharya, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering elected as Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Nov 10, 2018 Prof. Baidurya Bhattacharya, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering elected as Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Read more > < Read less Prof. Indranil Manna, Professor, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering has been selected for the National Metallurgist Award 2018 of the Ministry of Steel, Government of India. Nov 1, 2018 Prof. Indranil Manna, Professor, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering has been selected for the National Metallurgist Award 2018 of the Ministry of Steel, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering and the Director of the Institute is being honored with D. Sc. (Honoris Causa) by University of Kalyani in their 29th Annual Convocation. Oct 31, 2018 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering and the Director of the Institute is being honored with D. Sc. (Honoris Causa) by University of Kalyani, West Bengal in their 29th Annual Convocation. Read more > < Read less Prof. Srabani Taraphder, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been awarded INSA Teachers Award, 2018 by Indian National Science Academy. Oct 22, 2018 Prof. Srabani Taraphder, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been awarded INSA Teachers Award, 2018 by Indian National Science Academy. Read more > < Read less Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, School of Medical Science and Technology inducted as Fellow, Indian National Science Academy. Oct 18, 2018 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, School of Medical Science and Technology has been inducted as Fellow, Indian National Science Academy. Read more > < Read less Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director of the Institute and Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering is being awarded with Technology Excellence Award by Intel India. Oct 8, 2018 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director of the Institute and Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering is being awarded with Technology Excellence Award by Intel India. Read more > < Read less Chair Professorship and Faculty Excellence Awards - 2018 Aug 17, 2018 Institute Chair Professorship AwardProf. Indranil Manna, Department of Metallurgical and Materials EngineeringProf. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Department of Industrial and Systems EngineeringInstitute Faculty Excellence Award (Associate Professor)Dr. Rajib Maity, Department of Civil EngineeringDr. Rajat Subhra Chakraborty, Department of Computer Science & EngineeringDr. Abhijit Mukherjee, Department of Geology & GeophysicsInstitute Faculty Excellence Award (Assistant Professor)Dr. Sumantra Mandal, Department of Metallurgical and Materials EngineeringDr. Tirtha Sankar Ray, Department of PhysicsInstitute Faculty Excellence Award (Newly-joined Assistant Professor)Dr. Saptarshi Ghosh, Department of Computer Science & EngineeringA K Singh Distinguished Chair Professorship AwardProf. Pallab Dasgupta, Department of Computer Science and EngineeringExcellent Young Teacher Award (by IIT Kharagpur Alumni Foundation)Dr. Swanand Ravindra Khare, Department of Mathematics Read more > < Read less Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering honoured with J. C. Bose Fellowship. Aug 17, 2018 Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering honoured with J. C. Bose Fellowship Read more > < Read less J. C. Bose Fellowship for Prof. Subhasish Dey, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering. Aug 17, 2018 Prof. Subhasish Dey, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering honoured with the J. C. Bose Fellowship. Read more > < Read less Bioelectronics Research at IIT KGP to Develop Coin-sized Biological Computers for Medical Treatment Aug 1, 2018 IIT Kharagpur has set up Indias pioneering Bioelectronics Innovation Laboratory to develop futuristic battery-free implantable medical devices for treatment of brain, nerve, muscle or spinal cord disorders that are untreatable by using standard medical practices.Bioelectronics is a new and an exciting field in engineering that is yet to make its mark in India. It utilizes the intersecting knowledge of both electronics and biology. Bioelectronic devices generally target to restore missing neural functions, while utilizing energy efficient and miniaturized engineering systems.We aim to implant coin sized electronic chips with wireless energy supply for rehabilitation and prostheses applications. These chips will solve neural connectivity problems that are otherwise unaddressed by latest medical sciences. Our solutions will incorporate a combination of electrical stimulation, bio-potential recording and neuro-chemical sensing. Unlike the standard pace-makers that require a surgery every 5 to 10 years due to limited battery-life, our solutions depend on wireless power transfer and intelligent communication schemes. This will enhance the life-time of implants and reduce the number of surgical interventions. The programmable chips will help in adopting with varying physiological conditions in patients. The present line of research targets subjects with blindness, limb paralysis, sensory-motor dysfunction, cognition-loss, Parkinsons tremor, epileptic seizures, and even memory-loss. The novel bioelectronic devices will be able to sense bio-signals, process information to make intelligent decisions, and control diseased organs by electrical methods explained Prof. Sudip Nag from the Department of Electronics and Electrical Engineering who is heading this initiative at IIT Kharagpur.The proposed medical devices will help in realizing highly affordable and reliable medical solutions that are accessible to common population in India and the world. The laboratory will facilitate energy efficient electronic system development, biocompatible packaging, bio-reliability assessment and animal testing rooms as a unified platform for an end-to-end intelligent medical system development. Grants have been received from IIT Kharagpur, under MHRD Imprint program, SFTIG Indo-Canadian Fellowship grant etc. It is in the process of setting up collaborations with several hospitals and institutes in India and abroad.In addition to innovating new medical devices, the laboratory will open new career avenues in incubating companies for production and marketing and also create an international supply base for medical devices giants like Medtronic, Boston Scientific, Advanced Bionic, Second Sight and Saint Judes Medical, opined Prof. Nag. We are looking forward to technology licensing and commercialization of bioelectronic devices that are being developed in this laboratory he said. Read more > < Read less Dr. Dewasish Upadhyay, Associate Professor, Department of Geology and Geophysics has been awarded the prestigious Alexander von Humboldt Fellowship for experienced researchers. Jul 30, 2018 Dr. Dewasish Upadhyay, Associate Professor, Department of Geology and Geophysics has been awarded Alexander von Humboldt Fellowship for experienced researchers. Read more > < Read less Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering and his colleagues at University of Oxford University have been awarded the Vice-Chancellor's Innovation Award for Team Work on modeling of upscaled arsenic filter. The team comprises of Prof. Ian Griffiths, Dr. Sourav Mondal and Dr. Raka Mandal, University of Oxford and Mrs. K V Krishnasri from our Institute. Dr. Sourav Mandal is currently Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Jul 17, 2018 Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering and his colleagues at University of Oxford University have been awarded the Vice-Chancellor's Innovation Award for Team Work on modeling of upscaled arsenic filter.The team comprises of Prof. Ian Griffiths, Dr. Sourav Mondal and Dr. Raka Mandal, University of Oxford and Mrs. K V Krishnasri from our Institute. Dr. Sourav Mandal is currently Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Read more > < Read less Prof. N. D. Pradeep Singh, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected for the Distinguished Investigator Award by Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Jun 28, 2018 Prof. N. D. Pradeep Singh, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected for the Distinguished Investigator Award by Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Prof. MK Tiwari, Department of Industrial Systems and Engineering offered Visiting Professorship of Computational Intelligence in Manufacturing in the Wolfson School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, Loughborough University, UK. May 18, 2018 Prof. MK Tiwari, Department of Industrial Systems and Engineering offered Visiting Professorship of Computational Intelligence in Manufacturing in the Wolfson School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, Loughborough University, UK. Read more > < Read less Prof. G. P. Rajasekhar, Professor, Department of Mathematics has been selected for the award of "Mathematician of the Year - 2018" instituted at NIT Warangal. May 18, 2018 Prof. G. P. Rajasekhar, Professor, Department of Mathematics has been selected for the award of "Mathematician of the Year - 2018" instituted at NIT Warangal. Read more > < Read less Prof. N. D. Pradeep Singh, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected as Member of the National Academy of Sciences, India. May 18, 2018 Prof. N. D. Pradeep Singh, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected asMember of the National Academy of Sciences, India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Pratim Kumar Chattaraj, Department of Chemistry offered Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Department of Chemistry, IIT Bombay. May 18, 2018 Prof. Pratim Kumar Chattaraj, Professor, Department of Chemistry offered Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Department of Chemistry, IIT Bombay. Read more > < Read less Prof. M. K. Tiwari, Professor, Deptt. of Industrial & Systems Engineering elected Fellow, Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers, USA. May 18, 2018 Prof. M. K. Tiwari, Professor, Deptt. of Industrial & Systems Engineering electedFellow, Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers, USA. Read more > < Read less Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering has been awarded Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Mar 27, 2018 Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering has been awarded Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Read more > < Read less Prof. Koel Chaudhury, SMST, wins the Labhsetwar award Jan 29, 2018 Prof. Koel Chaudhury of the SMST has been selected for thefor the prestigiousLabhsetwaraward for her contributions in the field of women's health.This prestigious award is given byDrs. Anant and Lata Charitable Trust, Nagpur andLabhsetwarFoundation USAfor outstanding contributions in the field of reproductive health. The link for the award details is provided below:http://www.issrf.org/announcements/labhsetwar-award Read more > < Read less Prof. Sudip K. Ghosh, Professor, Department of Biotechnology has been elected as a Fellow of the West Bengal Academy of Science and Technology for the Year 2017. Jan 25, 2018 Prof. Sudip K. Ghosh, Professor, Department of Biotechnology has been elected as a Fellow of the West Bengal Academy of Science and Technology for the Year 2017. Read more > < Read less Professor K. N. Tiwari, Department of Agricultural & Food Engineering has been selected by the Indian Water Resources Society for "Eminent Water Resources Scientist Award" for the year 2016. Jan 15, 2018 Professor K. N. Tiwari, Department of Agricultural & Food Engineering has been selected by the Indian Water Resources Society for "Eminent Water Resources Scientist Award" for the year 2016. Read more > < Read less Prof. Swagata Dasgupta, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been elected for the Fellowship of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Jan 11, 2018 Prof. Swagata Dasgupta, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been elected for the Fellowship of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Read more > < Read less Dr. Mahitosh Mandal, Associate Professor, School of Medical Science & Technology has been elected for the Fellowship of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Jan 11, 2018 Dr. Mahitosh Mandal, Associate Professor, School of Medical Science & Technology has been elected for the Fellowship of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Read more > < Read less Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Dean (SRIC) and Head, School of Medical Science and Technology has been conferred with the Fellowship of The Royal Society of Chemistry, United Kingdom. Jan 8, 2018 Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Dean (SRIC) and Head, School of Medical Science and Technology has been conferred with the Fellowship of The Royal Society of Chemistry, United Kingdom. Read more > < Read less Dr. Saptarshi Ghosh, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been selected for the "IEI Young Engineers Award 2017-2018" in Computer Engineering by the Institution of Engineers (India). Dec 27, 2017 Dr. Saptarshi Ghosh, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been selected for the "IEI Young Engineers Award 2017-2018" in Computer Engineering by the Institution of Engineers (India). Read more > < Read less Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering has been conferred with Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship by the Indian National Academy of Engineering for three years starting January 2018. Dec 23, 2017 Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering has been conferred with Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship by the Indian National Academy of Engineering for three years starting January 2018. Read more > < Read less Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor and Head, Department of Chemical Engineering has been selected for Hindustan Dorr-Oliver Award of Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers (IIChE) for the Year 2017 for Excellence in use of Science and Technology in Rural Development. Nov 29, 2017 Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor and Head, Department of Chemical Engineering has been selected for Hindustan Dorr-Oliver Award of Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers (IIChE) for the Year 2017 for Excellence in use of Science and Technology in Rural Development. Read more > < Read less Dr. Abhijit Das, Assistant Professor, School of Bioscience is selected for the Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellowship 2016-17 by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. Nov 27, 2017 Dr. Abhijit Das, Assistant Professor, School of Bioscience is selected for the Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellowship 2016-17 by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Nikhil Singha and his research team have developed a self-healable polymer for coating and paint applications Nov 1, 2017 Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have invented a smart polymeric material which can be healed or self-repaired by heating if there are micro-cracks or scratches. Theresearch team at the Institutes Centre for Rubber Technology under the leadership of Prof. Nikhil Singha has developed acrylic polymers having specific functional groups. The product is created through a single step reaction with the post-polymerization process taking less than a minute. Organic compounds required for the product are also readily available at economical prices.This material can be used as a coating on glass or metal adds an ultrafast self-healing capacity without the use of any external reagent. This could be of significant use in industrial products and consumer products which are painted as finished products and are damage prone such as vehicles, glass exteriors etc.This process of self-healing or intrinsic healing is achieved only through the application of temperature at about 130-degree Celsius. The repairing process is completed in less than an hour. The properties of the material will not be changed even after self-repairing.So the removal of a scratch on your new car may not need a fresh paint anymore but only heating, if coated with this material while production. This will also bring down repairing cost as external reagents are not required.This material will have applications in self-repairing coatings and paintings in the respective industries, as commented by Prof. Singha who has recently been awarded Fellowship of the Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge, UK. The research has recently been featured in the ChemComm published by the Royal Society of Chemistry, London.This is relatively a new area research with the first research paper being published in Nature Chemistry only in 2014. However, the novelty of the research by the IIT Kharagpur team is the self-healing quality and non-requirement of external reagent unlike previous research which makes repairs faster and capable of sustaining multiple repairs said researcher Prantik Mondal.We are also working to make this anti-fouling, anti-bacterial etc, added Prof. Singha.In fact, Prof. Singhas research group is working in the development of self-healing polymeric material based on controlled polymerization and Diels-Alder click reaction during last several years. One of their works was featured in Editors spotlight article in Materials Views published by Wiley in 2013. However, this present self-healing system is much faster than earlier one. Read more > < Read less Prof. M. K. Tiwari, Deptt. of Industrial and Systems Engineering selected for the Prof. P. C. Mahalanobis Distinguished Educator Award for Management in the year 2017 by the Operational Research Society of India. Oct 31, 2017 Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering has been selected as the first recipient of the Prof. P. C. Mahalanobis Distinguished Educator Award for Management in the year 2017 by the Operational Research Society of India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Anupam Basu, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering and currently the Head, Center for Education Technology has been appointed as Director, National Institute of Technology Durgapur. Oct 25, 2017 Prof. Anupam Basu, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering and currently the Head, Center for Education Technology has been appointed as Director,National Institute of Technology Durgapur. Read more > < Read less Prof. Subhasish Dey, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering is elected Fellow, Indian National Science Academy. Oct 16, 2017 Prof. Subhasish Dey, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering is elected as Fellow, Indian National Science Academy. Read more > < Read less Prof. S. K. Ghosh, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected as National Geospatial Chair Professor, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Oct 13, 2017 Prof. S. K. Ghosh, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected for National Geospatial Chair Professorship, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Professor Swagata Dasgupta, Department of Chemistry nominated as the editorial board member of The Journal of Chemical Thermodynamics. Oct 7, 2017 Professor Swagata Dasgupta, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected as the editorial board member of The Journal of Chemical Thermodynamics (Elsevier) for3 years. Read more > < Read less Prof. Nilmoni Sarkar, Deptt. of Chemistry nominated as Editorial Advisory Member of Journal of Physical Chemistry. Oct 7, 2017 Prof. Nilmoni Sarkar, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been nominated as Member, Editorial Advisory Board of Journal of Physical Chemistry (American Chemical Society publication) forJanuary 2018-December 2020. Read more > < Read less Prof. Pratim Chattaraj, Department of Chemistry nominated as Member, Editorial Advisory Board of Journal of Physical Chemistry. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Pratim Chattaraj, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been nominated as Member, Editorial Advisory Board of Journal of Physical Chemistry (American Chemical Society publication) forJanuary 2018-December 2020. Read more > < Read less Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering elected as Fellow of the American Physical Society. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Suman Chakraborty,Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Head, School of Medical Science & Technology and Associate Dean, Sponsored Research and Industrial Consultancy has been elected as Fellow ofthe American Physical Society. Read more > < Read less Prof. Indranil Manna, Department of M&ME honored with "IIM Honorary Membership" by Indian Institute of Metals. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Indranil Manna, Professor, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering and currently Director, IIT Kanpur has been honoredwith "IIM Honorary Membership" by the Indian Institute of Metals. Read more > < Read less Prof. Siddhartha Das, Deptt. of M&ME selected for "IIM-Distinguished Educator Award" by Indian Institute of Metals. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Siddhartha Das, Professor, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering has been selected for the "IIM - Distinguished Educator Award" by the Indian Institute of Metals. Read more > < Read less Professor Samit K. Ray, Professor, Department of Physics and currently the Director, S. N. Bose National Center for Basic Sciences, Kolkata has been elected Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India for the year 2017. Oct 3, 2017 ProfessorSamit K. Ray,Professor, Department of Physics and currently theDirector, S. N. Bose National Center for Basic Sciences, Kolkata has been electedFellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India for the year 2017. Read more > < Read less Dr. Sudip Misra, Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been elected as Fellow of The National Academy of Sciences India, 2017. Oct 3, 2017 Dr. Sudip Misra, Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been elected as Fellow of The National Academy of Sciences India, 2017. Read more > < Read less IITKgp Faculty Innovates Real-time Visual Technology for Safer Transport during Rain Sep 21, 2017 Researchers from the Dept. of Electronics and Electrical Communications at IIT Kharagpur, have developed a visual technology for removal of effects of rain from videos in real-time and display it on the windscreen of vehicles to increase the clarity of the view.Accidents due to low visibility during heavy rain are a major concern all over the world. With smart cities and advanced transportation, this cannot persist and a technological solution was much awaited. Also, the solution needed to give real-time visual output with least errors as there is considerable risk involved in case any deviation in the imaging.The technology, Real-time Rain Removal from Videos is a proprietary algorithm which has a big advantage for Driver Assistance Systems (DAS) that uses video information to impart traffic related information. It will also increase the performance of various DAS algorithms like self-steering from white line recognition, distance adjustment between cars and road signs detection.The technology is envisioned to be used to enhance the safety of air, rail, ship and auto transportation by providing on-screen visualization of clear videos in rainy conditions. The visual acuity of rainy videos captured by surveillance cameras can also be enhanced by this algorithm said Lead researcher Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, faculty at IIT Kharagpur.In the proposed solution, time evolution properties of the consecutive video frames are analysed and the detection of regions affected by rain along with their restoration is proposed. Unlike previous approaches, the proposed algorithm does not assume the shape, size, direction and velocity of the raindrops and the intensity of rain, which makes it robust to different rain conditions. It is also able to distinguish moving objects from the rain regions in the video. This approach requires less number of frames for removal of rain from videos, reducing the delay and execution time of the algorithm and thus providing better frame rates than other approaches explained researcher Abhishek Kr. Tripathi.The technology has been patented internationally by the researchers under the name Method and Apparatus for Detection and Removal of Rain from Videos using Temporal and Spatiotemporal Properties.Instead of working on the colour components, the proposed algorithm works only on the intensity of the component of the video, so for autonomous driving/surveillance applications which do not require the videos to be displayed on a screen, we can work directly on monochrome videos rather than colour videos. Use of a single component (intensity) instead of three colour components further reduces the execution time of the algorithm added Abhishek.Research Impact:Patent Method and Apparatus for Detection and Removal of Rain from Videos using Temporal and Spatiotemporal Properties by Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay & Mr Abhishek Kr. Tripathi. US Granted Patent Number: US9077869B2, Grant Date: July 07, 2015. South Korea Patent Registration Number: 1015915760000, Grant Date: Jan 28, 2016. India Application Number: 1284/KOL/2010, Date of Filing: November 15, 2010Research papers1. A Probabilistic Approach for Detection and Removal of Rain from Videos by Abhishek Kumar Tripathi and Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, IETE Journal of Research, 20112. Removal of Rain from Videos a review by Abhishek Kumar Tripathi and Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, Signal, Image and Video Processing, 2014 Read more > < Read less SandHI: PROJECT VARANASI has international collaborations (2017-18) Sep 12, 2017 For more details click here. Professor Amiya R. Mohanty, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been elected as Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Sep 12, 2017 Professor Amiya R. Mohanty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been elected as Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Read more > < Read less Dr. Aritra Hazra, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering selected for the INAE Young Engineer Award 2017 and consequently admitted as Young Associate of Indian National Academy of Engineering. Sep 11, 2017 Dr. Aritra Hazra, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected for theINAEYoungEngineerAward2017 and consequently has been admitted as Young Associate of Indian National Academy of Engineering. Read more > < Read less IITKGP Innovates Real-time Visual Technology for Safer Transport during Rain Sep 4, 2017 Researchers from the Dept. of Electronics and Electrical Communications at IIT Kharagpur, have developed a visual technology for removal of effects of rain from videos in real-time and display it on the windscreen of vehicles to increase the clarity of the view.Accidents due to low visibility during heavy rain are a major concern all over the world. With smart cities and advanced transportation, this cannot persist and a technological solution was much awaited. Also, the solution needed to give real-time visual output with least errors as there is considerable risk involved in case any deviation in the imaging.The technology, Real-time Rain Removal from Videos is a proprietary algorithm which has a big advantage for Driver Assistance Systems (DAS) that uses video information to impart traffic related information. It will also increase the performance of various DAS algorithms like self-steering from white line recognition, distance adjustment between cars and road signs detection.The technology is envisioned to be used to enhance the safety of air, rail, ship and auto transportation by providing on-screen visualization of clear videos in rainy conditions. The visual acuity of rainy videos captured by surveillance cameras can also be enhanced by this algorithm said Lead researcher Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, faculty at IIT Kharagpur.In the proposed solution, time evolution properties of the consecutive video frames are analysed and the detection of regions affected by rain along with their restoration is proposed. Unlike previous approaches, the proposed algorithm does not assume the shape, size, direction and velocity of the raindrops and the intensity of rain, which makes it robust to different rain conditions. It is also able to distinguish moving objects from the rain regions in the video. This approach requires less number of frames for removal of rain from videos, reducing the delay and execution time of the algorithm and thus providing better frame rates than other approaches explained researcher Abhishek Kr. Tripathi.The technology has been patented internationally by the researchers under the name Method and Apparatus for Detection and Removal of Rain from Videos using Temporal and Spatiotemporal PropertiesInstead of working on the colour components, the proposed algorithm works only on the intensity of the component of the video, so for autonomous driving/surveillance applications which do not require the videos to be displayed on a screen, we can work directly on monochrome videos rather than colour videos. Use of a single component (intensity) instead of three colour components further reduces the execution time of the algorithm added Abhishek. Read more > < Read less Dr. Basab Chakraborty receives the Excellent Young Teacher Award instituted by IIT Kharagpur Alumni Foundation (India) Aug 21, 2017 Dr. Basab Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, Rajendra Mishra School of Engineering Entrepreneurship receives the Excellent Young Teacher Award instituted by IIT Kharagpur Alumni Foundation (India). Read more > < Read less Prof. Nikhil K Singha, Professor, Rubber Technology Center and currently the Head of the Center has been admitted as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK. Aug 17, 2017 Prof. Nikhil K Singha, Professor, Rubber Technology Center and currently the Head of the Center has been admitted as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK. Read more > < Read less ICI Life Time Achievement Award for Prof. S. K. Bhattacharyya, Deptt. of Civil Engg. Aug 17, 2017 Prof. Sriman Kumar Bhattacharyya, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering and currently the Deputy Director of our Institute has been chosen for the ICI - Life Time Achievement Award for the year 2017 by the Indian Concrete Institute in appreciation of his contributions to the concrete industry. Read more > < Read less GSAPP Columbia University and RCGSIDM IIT Kharagpur publishes E-Book on KOLKATA: WATER URBANISM Aug 7, 2017 For more details click here. Prof. Partim Kumar Chattaraj, Department of Chemistry and Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been awarded Institute Chair Professorship. Jun 21, 2017 For more details click here. Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee, Department of Chemical Engineering, Dr. Sudip Misra, Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Dr. Dewashish Upadhyay, Department of Geology & Geophysics, Dr. Sabyasaschi Mishra, Department of Chemistry, Dr. Arun Singh, Department of Geology & Geophysics, Dr. Ayan Roy Chaudhuri, Materials Science Center, Dr. Jeevanjyoti Chakraborty, Department of Mechanical Engineering receives Faculty Excellence Award. Jun 16, 2017 For more details click here. Prof. Amiya Ranjan Mohanty, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been awarded the Shyamal Ghosh and Sunanda Ghosh Chair Professorship. Jun 16, 2017 For more details click here. Prof. Jayanta Bhattacharya, Professor, Department of Mining Engineering has been awarded the M. A. Ramulu and Mrs. Saroja Ramulu Chair Professorship. Jun 16, 2017 For more details click here. AmbuSens: a Lifesaver Technology from IITKGP Jun 2, 2017 IIT Kharagpur has come up with a one-of-a-kind lifesaver technology that can be fitted in anambulance to ensure remote monitoring of patient condition by the doctors even before they reach the hospital!This technology named AmbuSens has been developed in the SWAN lab of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at IIT Kharagpur. AmbuSens is capable of wireless monitoring of various physiological parameters like ECG, heart-rate, temperature and blood-pressure. The system utilizes a unique hashing-based mechanism (patent filed) to preserve patients data confidentiality while simultaneously using the analytic and computing power of cloud computing. The web interface of the AmbuSens system provides an easy-to-use graphical interface for doctors and paramedics alike with data visualization tools such as real-time ECG graph rendering and can be accessed from internet-enabled laptops, tablets and smartphones.There is no such technology at present that can help doctorsat remote at the hospital to continuously monitorthe condition of the patient when the latter is on the move. This technology will be a boon for the referral patients who are transported from a hospital in remote area to a city hospital. Currently in such situations apart from family members, a medical technician companies a critical patient on an ambulance. But this technician has limited knowledge. Now with the doctors being able to monitor the patients on transit they can suggest medical interventions to the technician. This can be lifesaving, said the principal investigator for developing this system Prof. Sudip Misra, Department of CSE, IIT Kharagpur.The embedded system of AmbuSens includes both hardware and software. The system currently leverages wireless on-body sensors, cellular (3G/4G) and wireless technologies (Wi-Fi) and cloud computing to achieve seamless real-time monitoring and management of patient data.In future the system will work even with irregular Internet connection.Here is how AmbuSens works the referred hospital and the referee hospital as well as the ambulance will have laptops or tablets with internet connection. The patient will be fitted with wireless body sensors, which will help doctors of both referred and referee hospitals to continuously monitor the health condition of the ambulatory patients in real-time. Apart from monitoring critical patients referred from one hospital to the other an ambulance fitted with AmbuSens can be life saving for accident victims or cardiac patients who need to be transported to the hospital immediately.This technology is several steps ahead of telemedicine where the doctor can see the patients but do not havewirelessreal timemonitoring oftheir health condition. We conducted successful field trials of the developed system at All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bhubaneswar and BC Roy technological hospital (BCRTH), IIT Kharagpur. The trials were conducted on various patients (both male and female) admitted in intensive care unit (ICU), cardiac unit and patients coming for normal health check-up (OPD). Patients within age group of 10-70 years were considered for the trials. The duration of trial for each patient was around 20-30 minutes, saidProf. Misra.The researchers are currently working on further upgradingAmbuSensso that in future the technology can ensure advance prediction of a likely to have emergency (like cardiac arrest) of the patientin the immediate future. This will enable patients to get care before onset of emergency, potentially saving lives. Several sensors are also being developed to help monitor many more health parameters of the patients on the move.A state government from Northern part of India has already shown interest inthistechnology to help monitoring patient conditions in difficult terrains where the number of hospitals are limited.The principal investigator for the development of this system was Prof. Sudip Misra, Department of CSE, IIT Kharagpur. The co-investigators were Dr. I. Banerjee (BCRT Hospital, IIT Kharagpur) and Dr. Saurav Sarkar (AIIMS Bhubaneswar). The project staffs who worked on it are Niloy Saha, Subhadeep Sarkar, and Pradyumna Kumar Bishoyi.The salient features of the AmbuSens system are as follows:1.Telemedicine and Remote Healthcare:Utilizes wireless on-body sensors for improved mobility and user-convenience. Enables easy trend tracking and remote monitoring by specialized medical personnel without having to be physically present.2.Improved Emergency Response Time:Instant remote monitoring and feedback by the skilled medical professionals to paramedics for improved emergency diagnosis and treatment.3.Real Time Patient Status Monitoring:Continuous real-time monitoring of the patient from anywhere with internet connectivity provides up-to-date feedback about the status of the patient, and enables improved collaboration among hospitals.4.Cloud-based Digitized Medical History:Consistent cloud-based digital record-keeping system, which is fully privacy-aware and is accessible by all authenticated users across various healthcare facilities.Future directions for the AmbuSens system1. Warning before heart attack occurs will be possible in the future, based on gathered data.2. The system will work even with irregular Internet connection.3. Various others sensors including but not limited to Pulse Oximeter (SpO2) will be added.4. There will be options to add scans of existing medical records (e.g. X-rays) to the system to those doctors can access patients' data from one single place. Read more > < Read less 2nd Summer Study Abroad Programme - Offered as a collaboration between Department of Geography and Regional Planning, Indiana University of Pennsylvania (IUP) and Department of Architecture and Regional Planning, IIT Kharagpur May 31, 2017 Background:The Department of Geography and Regional Planning, Indiana University of Pennsylvania and the Department of Architecture and Regional Planning, IIT Kharagpur have come together to collaborate for the Summer Study Abroad Programme in India, 2017. Based on the interests and varied disciplinary background of our students and faculty members, we plan to conduct research on socio-economic and geographic issues of tea-plantations and how they are impacted by climate change. Darjeeling has been selected as test bed for this year.Aim of the Course:(i) To promote research and learning in areas like Regional Planning, Urbanization, Environmental Justification, and Sustainable Urban Communities and Cities through a rigorous, integrated and interdisciplinary approach.(ii) To combine the strength of IIT and IUP and expose students to a cross-cultural and cross dimensional scenario for understanding the urban dynamism and challenges faced by planners from a regional perspective.(iii)To develop inquisitiveness and passion for research and an attitude toward creative problem solving in urban planning through the practical training or the field study componentResearch Question:(i) What are the special factors responsible to give Darjeeling tea its unique "Muscatel flavour" and "Exquisite Banquet?(ii) From environmental perspectives, what changes or climate change impacts have been affecting the tea industries?(iii) How are the tea-gardens evolving or changing their production process as a response to that?(iv) What are changes in the market conditions of tea-industries in the era of 21st century globalization which might pose threat in sustaining global competiveness?(v)Considering the harsh reality of decreasing area of wetlands and increasing presence of non bio degradable chemicals in the water, what should be the role of urban planners in a metropolitan city like Kolkata?(vi)How can the wetlands be effectively used as resources for urban life?Coordinating Faculty members Indiana University of Pennsylvania (IUP) - Dr. Sudeshna Ghosh (Principal Coordinator), Dr. Brian Okey (Co- Coordinator)Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur - Dr. HaimantiBanerji (Principal Coordinato),Dr. SubrataChattopadhyay (Head , ARP), Co-cordinatorStructure of the Summer Study Abroad Programme (3rd 18th June) 3rd 7th June - IIT-IUP team stays in Kolkata and Kharagpur , attends lecture, talks to domain experts and fine tunes research agenda. A half-day workshop will be held on 5th of June in American centre.Extensive field study will be conducted in selected spots in Kolkata wetlands which would include sample collection, reconnaissance, photo-documentation.8th 12th June - Team travels to Darjeeling, visits tea gardens, collects primary data, conducts survey, interviews, conducts photo-documentation in the tea gardens.13th 17th June - Lab work will be conducted at IIT Kharagpur which will involve processing of data, drawing inferences, debating on the research issues and proposals.The closure will be through preparation of study report and group-wise presentation, panel discussions with invited guests and dialogues on the learning from the programme for future extension of the work.Benefit of this Bi-lateral event The study shall culminate in a joint report production at the end of the three weeks programme. The report would include possible policy interventions for maintaining global competitiveness of Darjeeling tea combating the challenges of climate change and other cropping issues.Creating a repository of knowledge in a shared platform accessed by the students and faculty from both the institute over the years will be a significant contribution of this course. Read more > < Read less IIT Kharagpur researchers develop new technology to manufacture biofuel May 31, 2017 Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have achieved a breakthrough that will change the way biofuel is manufactured all over the globe by making the process cheaper, quicker and above all pollution free.The soil-to-soil manufacturing technology developed at the P. K. Sinha Centre for bioenergy at IIT Kharagpur is in the process of being patented. Explaining how the technology would workDr. Rintu Banerjee, Professor of Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering, Ex-Chair professor, MNRE,P. K. Sinha Center for bioenergy said, 2g bioethanol can be produced from various naturally available lignocellulosic components. But to do so it needs to be treated chemically and in some cases physic-chemically . Because of chemical treatment the process contributes to polluting the environment. We have replaced this chemical treatment with enzymes which degrade the lignin specifically there by making the manufacturing process pollution free.Also unlike the chemical treatment here the waste product is pollution free and hence utilizing the residual biomass to organic fertilizeris possible. The solid waste recovered after bioethanol production is subjected to produce methane gas thereafter the fermented biomass was enriched with cyanobacteria to convert the residue into fertilizer. It is soil-to-soil technology, an integrated process where we are using natural resources to extract gaseous and liquid biofuel and then converting the wastes into bio fertilizer. It is an unique integrated approach which we have developed in our lab, she added.The National Policy on bio-fuel targeted20% blending of biofuel with petrol by 2017. But the target so far remains unachieved. With the government expecting bio fuel business in India to touch50,000 crore by 2022this new green technology with lesser manufacturing cost and time can become a game changer.The technique that we are suggesting will ensure relatively quicker production of bio fuel and ensuing that the process is completely green. There by not creating any secondary pollution. This, we feel can change the future of bio fuel manufacturing in India and make it more cost effective, said Prof. Banerjee.Presently this project is funded by theMinistry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Department of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Here they are taking care of another government mandate not to use consumable food crops for the purpose while manufacturing bio fuel. Hence IIT-KGP is producingbioethanol,biobutanol,biodiesel, biohydrogen and bio-methane in its pilot plant using various non-edible lignocellulosics which would have otherwise been wasted.The green leafy part of corn and sugarcane plants, the waste part of paddy straw, bushy bamboo, sorghum, banana plant, pineapple and cotton plants, kans grass (kassh phool), castor plant and even non edible weeds that grow in dry and waste land and a mix of all has been used by IIT-KGP to produce bio fuel. Recently the center has also succeeded in extracting bio diesel from used cooking oil, which was otherwise thrown away by the restaurants. To make the process zero wastes, glycerol has been used for growing oleaginous microbes and thus the lipid recovered can be used as biodiesel. This is also a green technology.Through these technologies we have successfully produced zero pollution bio fuel from 550 kg of biomass in our pilot plant. Unlike other bio fuel manufacturing process it requires very less water as well as the production process is quicker, which means the manufactures will not require huge reactors. The by-product when converted into organic fertilizer will ensure more income for the manufacture. The technology is ready for industry use, said Prof. Banerjee Read more > < Read less FICCI Research & Development Award 2017 conferred to the Research group from Dept. of Electronics and Electrical Communication May 24, 2017 The research group under the leadership of Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay at the Dept. of Electronics and Electrical Communication has received theFICCI Research & Development Award 2017 for their innovation"Real Time Fog Removal from Videos & Real Time Rain Removal from Videos".The innovation ideas were submitted by Mr. R. Hariharan and Mr. Manish Kumar Sharma. This work is the accumulation of contributions of research and development by Dr. Abhishek Kumar Tripathi, Mr. Nishant Gaurav, Ms. Bhamidipati Sridevi, Ms. Ashwini R. Patil and Mr. Leuva Hardik P. in addition to R.Hariharan & Manish K Sharma.The team developed algorithms for removing fog and rain from videos in real time. The fog algorithm estimates the distance of the objects from the camera in the form of the depth map. The depth map is further refined using anisotropic diffusion to identify clear boundaries of the object. Based on the refined depth the image is restored back to give cleaned images. This operation is performed on every frame of the video to generate a defogged video stream.Probabilistic model based temporal and spatio-temporal rain removal algorithms are developed which are both effective in removing rain from rain affected videos and are real-time in nature. It is based on the difference in the time evolution properties of that rain and non-rain pixels. Read more > < Read less IITKGP Team develops controlled access technology to unlock specific encrypted data May 24, 2017 Are you worried while sending out messages or uploading data on your cloud server? Of course you know encryption would be there. But such encryption could reduce the overall performance of your server. Now Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have developed a technological solution to access encrypted data on cloud server with keywords, without the need for decryption nor compromising the security of the system.Cloud computing has introduced various solutions with efficient ubiquitous sharing and agile independent access to large volumes of data. These solutions are being used across corporations, governments and individuals alike. However, security issues run high too with possible leakages of sensitive data such as customer transactions, search histories, credit card numbers, corporation and government policies, and personally identifiable information. Data encryption which is used as solution to data security often makes data searching and data mining operations difficult. The trivial solution involving sending data back to the owner for decryption and returning the same client, is time-consuming with high costs as it requires heavy bandwidth and storage capabilities. It also under-utilizes the computational ability of the cloud, which is usually much greater than that of individual devices. Cloud Computing being crucial in todays professional world, such gap cannot go unaddressed.The solution by the Secured Embedded Architecture Lab (SEAL) at IIT Kharagpur is pragmatic in the sense that it allows analytics on the encrypted data itself. This eliminates the need to decrypt the data or compromise system security. We need cryptosystems that allow searchable encryption, or more simply, keyword search over encrypted document collections and databases said researcher Sikhar Patranabis at SEAL.The research has lead to Controlled Access Searchable Encryption (CASE), a new public-key searchable encryption. CASE allows a data owner to generate a controlled-search access that can restrict the search capabilities of a data user to a specific subset of documents in the collection. This prevents the vulnerability of the full data set. CASE also preserves the privacy of the underlying plaintext data under well-known cryptographic assumptions explained Prof. Debdeep Mukhopadhyay, lead researcher of the project and Director of incubation at Embedded Security and Privacy Pvt Ltd. (ESP), STEP-IIT Kharagpur.CASE is the first public key searchable encryption scheme achieves performance and security at par with the most efficient symmetric key searchable encryption constructions with inherent access control and security guarantees. Also CASE hardware offers the advantage of massively parallel architectures to speed up searching on encrypted data.While all existing schemes produce access that grow linearly with the size of the document collection, CASE access window remains constant independent of the document collection size. CASE is secure under well-defined cryptographic assumptions, and requires optimal network communication between the server and the data owners/data users. Additionally, CASE is also efficient and scalable with respect to data updates, making it ideal for use in dynamic cloud-based search applications added Prof. Mukhopadhyay.We are expecting to have a full-fledged prototype implementation of our controlled-access searchable encryption set-up by the end of 2017. We are excited about the prospect of some new and highly motivated PhD candidates joining us in the coming semester, and together we hope to convert the present work from a prototype implementation to a usable system. We will then look to expand into potential technology transfer avenues to bring the work to a successful fruition said Sikhar.The current prototype implementation requires an estimated 172 FPGAs (cost: around 10,000 USD) to support a full-fledged encrypted search engine with 100 documents over a dictionary of 1000 keywords. We are currently working on massive area and power optimizations of the prototype for resource-constrained devices such as mobile phones. Fortunately, many of the primitives, such as elliptic curve cores, used by our technology are already present in modern gadgets for security. We intend to leverage these in order to reduce the overall blow-up of the device cost. In addition, it is also possible to host our service online, and access the same from ones own device via a simple login, with minimal processing requirements in the device itself explained Prof. Mukhopadhyay.The innovation has been published in several journals of repute such as IEEE Transactions on Computers (TC), and conferences such as Indocrypt. Read more > < Read less Prof. Manish A. Mamtani, Professor, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been appointed as Vice-Chair of the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) Commission on Tectonics & Structural Geology (TecTask). May 4, 2017 Prof. Manish A. Mamtani, Professor, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been appointed as Vice-Chair of the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) Commission on Tectonics & Structural Geology (TecTask). Read more > < Read less SandHI INTERNATIONAL SEMINAR on 'HISTORICAL EVOLUTION OF INDIA' at RKM Institute of Culture, GolPark, Kolkata - May 11 -13, 2017 May 1, 2017 For more details click here. Dr. Debraj Choudhury, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics is selected for the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) medal for Young Scientists 2017. Apr 26, 2017 Dr. Debraj Choudhury, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics has been selected for the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) medal for Young Scientists 2017. Read more > < Read less Dr. Uday Shankar, Assistant Professor, Rajiv Gandhi School of IP Law receives Magdalene Schoch Fellowship as Visiting Professor at University of Hamburg. Apr 21, 2017 Dr. Uday Shankar, Rajiv Gandhi School of IP Law receives Magdalene Schoch Fellowship as Visiting Professor in the Faculty of Law, University of Hamburg. Read more > < Read less Prof. AK Bhowmick selected as INAE Chair Professor Apr 12, 2017 Prof. Anil K. Bhwomick, Professor, Rubber Technology Center has been selected for INAE Chair Professorship for two years by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Read more > < Read less Prof. P. P. Chakrabarti is honoured with TechnoVisionary Life Time Achievement Award Feb 26, 2017 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering and the Director of our Institute has been honoured with TechnoVisionary Life Time Achievement Award for his outstanding contributions in the fields of algorithms, AI and CAD for VLSI design. Read more > < Read less RCGSIDM students will join Interim Review Workshop of GSAPP, Columbia University, NYC Feb 14, 2017 In March 6-9, 2017, six students of Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Management (RCGSIDM), namely Research Scholars Prashant Prasad, Sunny Bansal, Mouli Majumdar, Shivangi Singh Parmar, and Dipanjan Nag; and M.Tech student Navneet Singh have been selected to join students of Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, Columbia University (GSAPP), New York City to conduct a Phase II Interim Joint Review Workshop to be held in New Your City.The Phase II Workshop is a sequel to Phase I International Symposium on Water Urbanism n Kolkata (January 6-7, 2017);a subsequent Field workshop in Kolkata (January 7 - 14, 2017); and a FUTURE CITIES Workshop (January 12, 2017)in collaboration with the University of Edinburgh, UK; Tokyo Metropolitan university, Japan and Ministry of Urban Development, Government of West Bengal. Prof. Joy Sen, Head, RCGSIDM has been invited by GSAPP to accompany the participant team. Read more > < Read less Prof. Ajoy K Ray, Department of E&ECE, awarded Padma Shri. Feb 8, 2017 Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering and former Head, School of Medical Science and Technology has been awarded Padma Shri by the Government of India.Prof. Ray is currently the Director, Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur. Read more > < Read less RGSOIPL has been ranked Second and First in research in All India Ranking. Feb 2, 2017 In January 2017, Careers360 has ranked the Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law (RGSOIPL), Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Second in the ranking of Law Universities/Schools/Colleges in India. It is also ranked First in research.The ranking is based on Input (in terms of Students Quality, Faculty Quality & Engagement); Process (Teaching Quality and Learning), and Research Output (publications & citations received, and alumni goodwill).This is the third consecutive year in which RGSOIPL is finding its place in the All India Ranking List. Read more > < Read less Prof. Anirban Dhar is member of the Leadership Team of Groundwater Hydraulics and Management Committee of the International Association for Hydro-Environment Engineering and Research. Jan 18, 2017 Prof. Anirban Dhar, Department of Civil Engineeringhas been included as a memberof the new Leadership Team ofGroundwater Hydraulics and Management Committeeof the International Association for Hydro-Environment Engineering and Researchfor the period 2017-2019. Read more > < Read less IIT- MIT India Practicum, 2016-2017 by Department of Architecture and Regional Planning, IIT Kharapgur and the School of Architecture and Planning, MIT Jan 16, 2017 Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur is geared up to bolster Professional Partnerships, expand Study Abroad Programs and initiate Research Collaborations with selected universities in the United States of America. With this vision, the School of Architecture and Planning, MIT and Department of Architecture and Regional Planning, IIT Kharagpur have come together to collaborate for the India Practicum programme. The broad objective of the programme is to critically study urbanisation in the current developing world, where the concept is no longer limited to the precincts of what are administratively defined as "cities".Stage I 27th and 28th OctoberIntroduction of the practicum structure and context to MIT studentsStage II 18th January 28th January 2017 Visit of MIT students and Faculty to India for the field trip Field trip structure 2-days Lecture at Kharagpur (by IIT faculty and domain experts)4-days study tour at Santiniketan1-day workshop with State Government for input2-day data compilation at KolkataNo. of StudentsMIT 15 (8 from DUSP and 7 from ARP comprising UG, PG and RS)IIT - 12 (UG, PG and RS)Stage III January May, 2017 - Students work in their respective instituteStudio work by MIT students in spring semester with regular interaction with IIT Team through video conferencingStage IV May, 2017 Closure with a two-day colloquium at MIT where IIT students and faculty are invitedFuture possibilitiesCredit course at IIT at UG and PG levelMoU between the Institutes Read more > < Read less Dr. Sajal Dhara, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics has been selected for the award of "Ramanujan Fellowship" of Department of Science & Technology, Government of India. Jan 11, 2017 Dr. Sajal Dhara, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics has been selected for the award of "Ramanujan Fellowship" of Department of Science & Technology, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Professor Debdeep Mukhopadhyay, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been awarded the prestigious Swarnajayanti Fellowship. Jan 4, 2017 Prof. Debdeep Mukhopadhyay, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been awarded theSwarnaJayanti Fellowship in Engineering Scienceby the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee invited as Editor of Editorial Board, India of "Advanced Powder Technology". Jan 4, 2017 Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee, Associate Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering invited to join as Editor of Editorial Board, India for "Advanced Powder Technology". Read more > < Read less Prof. M. P. Biswal selected as an Associate Editor of the Journal OPSEARCH by the Central Council of the Operational Research Society of India. Jan 3, 2017 Prof. M. P. Biswal, Department ofMathematics has been selectedas an Associate Editor of the Journal OPSEARCH for a period of three yearsby the Central Council of the Operational Research Society of India. Read more > < Read less Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee invited to be Associate Editor, Bulletin of Materials Science. Dec 16, 2016 Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee, Associate Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering has been invited to join the Editorial Board of Bulletin of Materials Science as Associate Editor for the period January 2017 to December 2019. Read more > < Read less Prof. S. K. Ray invited to be Member, Editorial Board of "Nanotechnology". Dec 16, 2016 Prof. S. K. Ray, Professor, Department of Physics and currently the Director, S. N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Kolkata; has been invited to join as a member of the Editorial Board of "Nanotechnology" a Journal of Institute of Physics, UK. Read more > < Read less Prof. Subrata Chattopadhyay selected as "Avinash Gupta Chair Professor" of the Institute. Dec 7, 2016 Prof. Subrata Chattopadhyay, Professor, Department of Architecture and Regional Planning has been selectedas "Avinash Gupta Chair Professor" of the Institute. Read more > < Read less Dr. Swati Maitra of Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Management selected for "Bihar PWD Medal" of Indian Road Congress. Dec 7, 2016 Dr. Swati Maitra, AssistantProfessor,Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Managementis selected for the "Bihar PWD Medal"by theIndian Road Congress, New Delhifor her outstanding paper on "Road Research"presented during the 76th Annual Session of IRC. Read more > < Read less Prof. Sankar Kumar Nath, Department of Geology & Geophysics elected as Fellow of West Bengal Academy of Science & Technology. Dec 6, 2016 Prof. Sankar Kumar Nath, Professor, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been elected as Fellow of West Bengal Academy of Science & Technology (WAST) for the year 2016. Read more > < Read less Faculty Member Receives Young Scientist Award Nov 30, 2016 Dr. Bharath H Aithal, AssistantProfessor,Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Managementhas been awarded as "Young Scientist of the Year 2016" by the National Environmental Science Academy Award Committee 2016. Read more > < Read less Dr. Arindam Mondal, School of Bioscience selected for Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellowship. Nov 21, 2016 Dr. Arindam Mondal, Assistant Professor, School of Bioscience has been selected for the Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellowship of the Department of Biotechnology for the year2015-16. Read more > < Read less Prof. V. Chandrasekar, Colorado State University is the Samudragupta MoES Chair Professor of the Institute. Nov 10, 2016 Prof. V. Chandrasekar, University Distinguished Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Colorado State University, USA is the Samudragupta MoES Chair Professor of the Institute as per the MOU signed by the Institute with the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Dr. Rajib Maity, Department of Civil Engineering selected as James Rennell MoES Young Fellow. Nov 10, 2016 Dr. Rajib Maity, Department of Civil Engineering selected as James Rennell MOES Young Fellow for One Year as per the MOU signed by the Institute with Ministry of Earth Sciences, Government of India. Read more > < Read less Prof. Rintu Banerjee,Department of Agricultural & Food Engineering selected for the "Dr. (Ms) Prem Dureja Endowment Award". Nov 9, 2016 Prof. Rintu Banerjee, Professor, Department of Agricultural & Food Engineering has been selected for the "Dr. (Ms) Prem Dureja Endowment Award" by theNational Academy of Agricultural Sciencesfor the Biennium 2015-16. Read more > < Read less Prof. Khanindra Pathak, Department of Mining Engineering selected as Member, Experts Committee for Standardization of Environmental Clearance for Coal Mining & Coal Washery by the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Government of India. Nov 9, 2016 Prof. Khanindra Pathak, Professor & Head, Department of Mining Engineering has been selected as Member, Experts Committee for Standardization of Environmental Clearance for Coal Mining & Coal Washery by the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Government of India. Read more > < Read less IIT Kharagpur Develops Technology Aids for Pedagogical Requirements of Students with Special needs Nov 4, 2016 For Press Coverage please see:http://indianexpress.com/article/education/iit-kharagpur-researchers-enable-web-access-for-disabled/http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kolkata/IIT-Kharagpur-tech-push-to-help-visually-impaired-kids-read-Bangla-classics/articleshow/55147012.cmshttp://www.newindianexpress.com/lifestyle/tech/2016/oct/26/iit-kharagpur-creates-software-to-help-disabled-persons-1532086--2.htmlResearchers at IIT Kharagpur have developed a whole new range of technological tools to empower children with special needs and meet their educational requirements. These tools which have been tested successfully in Indian conditions and specifically made for Indian children with such needs were displayed on October 22, 2016 at the Kolkata Extension Center of IIT Kharagpur by IIT researchers and Society for Natural Language Technology Research (SNLTR) Kolkata, to whom some of the technologies have been transferred for wider deployment. IIT Kharagpur has started a Teaching-Learning Center in the project mode, with support from the Ministry of Human Resources Development. One of the objectives of this program is to develop new pedagogical tools and systems for the learning process of the differently-abled children. A review of the existing tools and practices are also a part of the task. The tools and systems will be made available to all through on-line access repository. The second objective of the program is to spread out the use of these tools among the teachers, through workshops and awareness programs. The execution of this activity is planned with direct participation of the teachers, special educators and parents of the children said Prof. Anupam Basu, lead researcher and Head & Chairman, Centre for Education Technology, IIT Kharagpur.A voice-enabled key-board named Baisakhi developed by the researchers will enable the user to hear the sound of the words typed using the key board on the computer screen thus helping a visually impaired person to write. Besides the keyboard, a software which translates any Indian language to Braille has been developed and thus text material can be printed in Braille. This initiative is named Sparsha.The researchers from IIT Kharagpur have also developed a multimedia hardware-software communication system for the education of students with Cerebral Palsy. We have been working on various projects to help ease educational requirements of children with special needs. Some of the tools developed by us are also been used by various organizations. We take feedback from these organizations and other professionals in this field and further enhance the capabilities of the tools to meet the requirements of the users added Prof. Basu.Akash-Bani is an android application wherein image icons are available which when touched will be converted to voice command. This application will be especially beneficial for people with speech as well motor disabilities. The tool Sanyog is a communication system for the speech impaired and children with Cerebral Palsy. While Sanyog is a learning software communication can be done for the speech impaired and children with cerebral palsy through various image icons. Through the software the user can select icons for various action verbs and thereafter nouns as required and then select whether it was meant in affirmative or negative sense.The Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy (IICP) has already adopted these tools. Swati Chakraborty, Head, Information Technology, IICP said, Akash-Bani is a breakthrough innovation. This tool can be used by not just children affected with Cerebral Palsy but even others with speech impairment. Sanyog is critical for learning. Such tools were earlier procured from abroad which were not only highly expensive but did not have the option of Indian mother tongues. IIT Kharagpur has set up a newtrend with these innovations.The event had participation from Experts, Organizations, NGOs and Schools from all over India working in special education. The event had a brainstorming session on the requirements to develop tools for the different disabilitiesIt focused on creating an ecosystem of technologist and evangelists to spread awareness of the technology availability and capacity building with shared responsibilities and action plans for Awareness Building, Hi-Tech and Low-tech tool development and their dissemination. Read more > < Read less Prof. Mahitosh Mandal elected as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India Oct 18, 2016 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Associate Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been elected as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India in the year 2016. Read more > < Read less Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director, IIT Kharagpur received the prestigious ACCS - CDAC Foundation Award, 2016 Sep 28, 2016 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director, IIT Kharagpur received the prestigious ACCS - CDAC Foundation Award for 2016 for his seminal contributions in Artificial Intelligence methods for automated reasoning and its application to design and validation of reliable embedded VLSI systems as well as his stewardship of various national initiatives in driving the industry-academia collaborative research. Read more > < Read less Prof. Santanu Kapat awarded INSA Medal for Young Scientist Award 2016 Sep 28, 2016 Dr. Santanu Kapat, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering has been awarded the prestigious INSA Medal for Young Scientist 2016. The award is considered to be the highest recognition of promise, creativity and excellence in a young scientist below 35 years, and is made annually by the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) to those distinguished for these attributes as evidenced by their research work carried out in India.Dr. Kapat has been recognized for his valuable contributions to High Performance, Energy- Efficient, EMI-Aware Mixed-Signal Dynamic Power Management Architectures. Through his research, he has proposed various simple, yet powerful mixed-signal power management architectures to simultaneously improve efficiency, transient performance, power density, and power spectrum.Dr. Kapat has developed closed-form analysis and design tools which would be very useful for digital power supply designers. He has proposed ultra-fast energy-efficient dynamic DC-DC converter architectures for dynamic voltage scaling (DVS), some of which have the promise to differentiate between power supply architectures for DVS-enabled multi-core processors and LED driving applications.The INSA award comprises a bronze medal, a certificate and a cash prize of Rs 25000. The award shall be presented to the recipient by the INSA President at its Anniversary General Meeting in December. Read more > < Read less Highlights NDLI & SandHI at 2020 INTERNATIONAL BOOK FAIR KOLKATA Jan 17, 2020 Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering and currently the Dean (Planning & Coordination) has been appointed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India as the Director, National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE), Mumbai. Oct 18, 2019 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been elected as a Fellow of Royal Society of Biology''s Council (FRSB). Oct 14, 2019 Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Professor, Department of Industrial System Engineering and currently the Dean (Planning & Coordination) has been inducted as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences India. Oct 14, 2019 Prof. Somnath Bhattacharyya, Professor & Head, Department of Mathematics has been inducted as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences India. Oct 14, 2019 Dr. Atul Jain, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering judged 1st (Individual Category) for the challenge area "Joints in Composite Structure" in the Dare to Dream DRDO Innovation Contest. Sep 17, 2019 Dr. Sandip Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been selected for the INAE Young Engineer Award 2019 by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Sep 16, 2019 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been awarded Basanti Devi Amir Chand Prize by Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi for 2018. Sep 4, 2019 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, Professor, School of Medical Science and Technology has been selected for the J. C. Bose Fellowship of Science & Engineering Research Board, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Aug 14, 2019 Dr. Puneet Kumar Patra, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering has been awarded the INSA Medal for Young Scientists for 2019 as the highest recognition of promise, creativity and excellence as evidenced by research work carried out in India. Jul 29, 2019 Prof. Saibal Gupta, Professor and Head, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been awarded the prestigious INSA Teachers Award (2019) for having encouraged students to take up careers in Science and Technology and being consistently imparting high level of teaching. Jul 29, 2019 Prof. Chandan Chakraborty, Department of Electrical Engineering has been selected for the IEEE Bimal Bose Award. Jul 31, 2019 Prof. Chandan Chakraborty, Department of Electrical Engineering has been appointed as founding Editor in Chief of IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Industrial Electronics until the end of 2022. Jun 25, 2019 ARP-ID Scholars to present SMART INDIA at GaTECH Atlanta Apr 19, 2019 ARCHITECTURE re-awarded NIRF # 1 Apr 11, 2019 Prof. Mrityunjoy Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering has been selected as Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) Chair Professor for two years w.e.f 1st April 2019. Apr 1, 2019 Professor Sirshendu De, Department of Chemical Engineering has been selected for NRDC National Societal Innovation Award - 2018, for his invention Low Cost Arsenic Removal Filter for Drinking Water. Feb 8, 2019 Prof. Anil K. Bhowmick, Professor of Eminence, Rubber Technology Center has been selected for the 2019 Fred E. Schwab International Education Award of the Society of Plastics Engineers, USA. Prof. Bhowmick is the first person working in Asia to have been selected for this award. Jan 29, 2019 Prof. Sudip Misra, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected for the conferment of "Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship" by INAE. Jan 28, 2019 NDLI & SandHI IIT Kharagpur present stall at 43rd International Book Fair Kolkata Jan 23, 2019 Setting up of THE ACADEMY OF CLASSICAL & FOLK ARTS Jan 2, 2019 Prof. Baidurya Bhattacharya, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering elected as Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Nov 10, 2018 Prof. Indranil Manna, Professor, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering has been selected for the National Metallurgist Award 2018 of the Ministry of Steel, Government of India. Nov 1, 2018 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering and the Director of the Institute is being honored with D. Sc. (Honoris Causa) by University of Kalyani in their 29th Annual Convocation. Oct 31, 2018 Prof. Srabani Taraphder, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been awarded INSA Teachers Award, 2018 by Indian National Science Academy. Oct 22, 2018 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal, School of Medical Science and Technology inducted as Fellow, Indian National Science Academy. Oct 18, 2018 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director of the Institute and Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering is being awarded with Technology Excellence Award by Intel India. Oct 8, 2018 Chair Professorship and Faculty Excellence Awards - 2018 Aug 17, 2018 Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering honoured with J. C. Bose Fellowship. Aug 17, 2018 J. C. Bose Fellowship for Prof. Subhasish Dey, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering. Aug 17, 2018 Bioelectronics Research at IIT KGP to Develop Coin-sized Biological Computers for Medical Treatment Aug 1, 2018 Dr. Dewasish Upadhyay, Associate Professor, Department of Geology and Geophysics has been awarded the prestigious Alexander von Humboldt Fellowship for experienced researchers. Jul 30, 2018 Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering and his colleagues at University of Oxford University have been awarded the Vice-Chancellor's Innovation Award for Team Work on modeling of upscaled arsenic filter. The team comprises of Prof. Ian Griffiths, Dr. Sourav Mondal and Dr. Raka Mandal, University of Oxford and Mrs. K V Krishnasri from our Institute. Dr. Sourav Mandal is currently Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Jul 17, 2018 Prof. N. D. Pradeep Singh, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected for the Distinguished Investigator Award by Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Jun 28, 2018 Prof. MK Tiwari, Department of Industrial Systems and Engineering offered Visiting Professorship of Computational Intelligence in Manufacturing in the Wolfson School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, Loughborough University, UK. May 18, 2018 Prof. G. P. Rajasekhar, Professor, Department of Mathematics has been selected for the award of "Mathematician of the Year - 2018" instituted at NIT Warangal. May 18, 2018 Prof. N. D. Pradeep Singh, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been selected as Member of the National Academy of Sciences, India. May 18, 2018 Prof. Pratim Kumar Chattaraj, Department of Chemistry offered Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Department of Chemistry, IIT Bombay. May 18, 2018 Prof. M. K. Tiwari, Professor, Deptt. of Industrial & Systems Engineering elected Fellow, Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers, USA. May 18, 2018 Prof. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, Professor, Department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering has been awarded Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship by the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Mar 27, 2018 Prof. Koel Chaudhury, SMST, wins the Labhsetwar award Jan 29, 2018 Prof. Sudip K. Ghosh, Professor, Department of Biotechnology has been elected as a Fellow of the West Bengal Academy of Science and Technology for the Year 2017. Jan 25, 2018 Professor K. N. Tiwari, Department of Agricultural & Food Engineering has been selected by the Indian Water Resources Society for "Eminent Water Resources Scientist Award" for the year 2016. Jan 15, 2018 Prof. Swagata Dasgupta, Professor, Department of Chemistry has been elected for the Fellowship of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Jan 11, 2018 Dr. Mahitosh Mandal, Associate Professor, School of Medical Science & Technology has been elected for the Fellowship of the Indian Academy of Sciences. Jan 11, 2018 Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Associate Dean (SRIC) and Head, School of Medical Science and Technology has been conferred with the Fellowship of The Royal Society of Chemistry, United Kingdom. Jan 8, 2018 Dr. Saptarshi Ghosh, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been selected for the "IEI Young Engineers Award 2017-2018" in Computer Engineering by the Institution of Engineers (India). Dec 27, 2017 Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering has been conferred with Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship by the Indian National Academy of Engineering for three years starting January 2018. Dec 23, 2017 Prof. Sirshendu De, Professor and Head, Department of Chemical Engineering has been selected for Hindustan Dorr-Oliver Award of Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers (IIChE) for the Year 2017 for Excellence in use of Science and Technology in Rural Development. Nov 29, 2017 Dr. Abhijit Das, Assistant Professor, School of Bioscience is selected for the Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellowship 2016-17 by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. Nov 27, 2017 Prof. Nikhil Singha and his research team have developed a self-healable polymer for coating and paint applications Nov 1, 2017 Prof. M. K. Tiwari, Deptt. of Industrial and Systems Engineering selected for the Prof. P. C. Mahalanobis Distinguished Educator Award for Management in the year 2017 by the Operational Research Society of India. Oct 31, 2017 Prof. Anupam Basu, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering and currently the Head, Center for Education Technology has been appointed as Director, National Institute of Technology Durgapur. Oct 25, 2017 Prof. Subhasish Dey, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering is elected Fellow, Indian National Science Academy. Oct 16, 2017 Prof. S. K. Ghosh, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering has been selected as National Geospatial Chair Professor, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Oct 13, 2017 Professor Swagata Dasgupta, Department of Chemistry nominated as the editorial board member of The Journal of Chemical Thermodynamics. Oct 7, 2017 Prof. Nilmoni Sarkar, Deptt. of Chemistry nominated as Editorial Advisory Member of Journal of Physical Chemistry. Oct 7, 2017 Prof. Pratim Chattaraj, Department of Chemistry nominated as Member, Editorial Advisory Board of Journal of Physical Chemistry. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering elected as Fellow of the American Physical Society. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Indranil Manna, Department of M&ME honored with "IIM Honorary Membership" by Indian Institute of Metals. Oct 6, 2017 Prof. Siddhartha Das, Deptt. of M&ME selected for "IIM-Distinguished Educator Award" by Indian Institute of Metals. Oct 6, 2017 Professor Samit K. Ray, Professor, Department of Physics and currently the Director, S. N. Bose National Center for Basic Sciences, Kolkata has been elected Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India for the year 2017. Oct 3, 2017 Dr. Sudip Misra, Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been elected as Fellow of The National Academy of Sciences India, 2017. Oct 3, 2017 IITKgp Faculty Innovates Real-time Visual Technology for Safer Transport during Rain Sep 21, 2017 SandHI: PROJECT VARANASI has international collaborations (2017-18) Sep 12, 2017 Professor Amiya R. Mohanty, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been elected as Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering. Sep 12, 2017 Dr. Aritra Hazra, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering selected for the INAE Young Engineer Award 2017 and consequently admitted as Young Associate of Indian National Academy of Engineering. Sep 11, 2017 IITKGP Innovates Real-time Visual Technology for Safer Transport during Rain Sep 4, 2017 Dr. Basab Chakraborty receives the Excellent Young Teacher Award instituted by IIT Kharagpur Alumni Foundation (India) Aug 21, 2017 Prof. Nikhil K Singha, Professor, Rubber Technology Center and currently the Head of the Center has been admitted as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK. Aug 17, 2017 ICI Life Time Achievement Award for Prof. S. K. Bhattacharyya, Deptt. of Civil Engg. Aug 17, 2017 GSAPP Columbia University and RCGSIDM IIT Kharagpur publishes E-Book on KOLKATA: WATER URBANISM Aug 7, 2017 Prof. Partim Kumar Chattaraj, Department of Chemistry and Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been awarded Institute Chair Professorship. Jun 21, 2017 Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee, Department of Chemical Engineering, Dr. Sudip Misra, Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Dr. Dewashish Upadhyay, Department of Geology & Geophysics, Dr. Sabyasaschi Mishra, Department of Chemistry, Dr. Arun Singh, Department of Geology & Geophysics, Dr. Ayan Roy Chaudhuri, Materials Science Center, Dr. Jeevanjyoti Chakraborty, Department of Mechanical Engineering receives Faculty Excellence Award. Jun 16, 2017 Prof. Amiya Ranjan Mohanty, Department of Mechanical Engineering has been awarded the Shyamal Ghosh and Sunanda Ghosh Chair Professorship. Jun 16, 2017 Prof. Jayanta Bhattacharya, Professor, Department of Mining Engineering has been awarded the M. A. Ramulu and Mrs. Saroja Ramulu Chair Professorship. Jun 16, 2017 AmbuSens: a Lifesaver Technology from IITKGP Jun 2, 2017 2nd Summer Study Abroad Programme - Offered as a collaboration between Department of Geography and Regional Planning, Indiana University of Pennsylvania (IUP) and Department of Architecture and Regional Planning, IIT Kharagpur May 31, 2017 IIT Kharagpur researchers develop new technology to manufacture biofuel May 31, 2017 FICCI Research & Development Award 2017 conferred to the Research group from Dept. of Electronics and Electrical Communication May 24, 2017 IITKGP Team develops controlled access technology to unlock specific encrypted data May 24, 2017 Prof. Manish A. Mamtani, Professor, Department of Geology & Geophysics has been appointed as Vice-Chair of the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) Commission on Tectonics & Structural Geology (TecTask). May 4, 2017 SandHI INTERNATIONAL SEMINAR on 'HISTORICAL EVOLUTION OF INDIA' at RKM Institute of Culture, GolPark, Kolkata - May 11 -13, 2017 May 1, 2017 Dr. Debraj Choudhury, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics is selected for the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) medal for Young Scientists 2017. Apr 26, 2017 Dr. Uday Shankar, Assistant Professor, Rajiv Gandhi School of IP Law receives Magdalene Schoch Fellowship as Visiting Professor at University of Hamburg. Apr 21, 2017 Prof. AK Bhowmick selected as INAE Chair Professor Apr 12, 2017 Prof. P. P. Chakrabarti is honoured with TechnoVisionary Life Time Achievement Award Feb 26, 2017 RCGSIDM students will join Interim Review Workshop of GSAPP, Columbia University, NYC Feb 14, 2017 Prof. Ajoy K Ray, Department of E&ECE, awarded Padma Shri. Feb 8, 2017 RGSOIPL has been ranked Second and First in research in All India Ranking. Feb 2, 2017 Prof. Anirban Dhar is member of the Leadership Team of Groundwater Hydraulics and Management Committee of the International Association for Hydro-Environment Engineering and Research. Jan 18, 2017 IIT- MIT India Practicum, 2016-2017 by Department of Architecture and Regional Planning, IIT Kharapgur and the School of Architecture and Planning, MIT Jan 16, 2017 Dr. Sajal Dhara, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics has been selected for the award of "Ramanujan Fellowship" of Department of Science & Technology, Government of India. Jan 11, 2017 Professor Debdeep Mukhopadhyay, Department of Computer Science and Engineering has been awarded the prestigious Swarnajayanti Fellowship. Jan 4, 2017 Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee invited as Editor of Editorial Board, India of "Advanced Powder Technology". Jan 4, 2017 Prof. M. P. Biswal selected as an Associate Editor of the Journal OPSEARCH by the Central Council of the Operational Research Society of India. Jan 3, 2017 Dr. Rabibrata Mukherjee invited to be Associate Editor, Bulletin of Materials Science. Dec 16, 2016 Prof. S. K. Ray invited to be Member, Editorial Board of "Nanotechnology". Dec 16, 2016 Prof. Subrata Chattopadhyay selected as "Avinash Gupta Chair Professor" of the Institute. Dec 7, 2016 Dr. Swati Maitra of Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Management selected for "Bihar PWD Medal" of Indian Road Congress. Dec 7, 2016 Prof. Sankar Kumar Nath, Department of Geology & Geophysics elected as Fellow of West Bengal Academy of Science & Technology. Dec 6, 2016 Faculty Member Receives Young Scientist Award Nov 30, 2016 Dr. Arindam Mondal, School of Bioscience selected for Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellowship. Nov 21, 2016 Prof. V. Chandrasekar, Colorado State University is the Samudragupta MoES Chair Professor of the Institute. Nov 10, 2016 Dr. Rajib Maity, Department of Civil Engineering selected as James Rennell MoES Young Fellow. Nov 10, 2016 Prof. Rintu Banerjee,Department of Agricultural & Food Engineering selected for the "Dr. (Ms) Prem Dureja Endowment Award". Nov 9, 2016 Prof. Khanindra Pathak, Department of Mining Engineering selected as Member, Experts Committee for Standardization of Environmental Clearance for Coal Mining & Coal Washery by the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Government of India. Nov 9, 2016 IIT Kharagpur Develops Technology Aids for Pedagogical Requirements of Students with Special needs Nov 4, 2016 Prof. Mahitosh Mandal elected as Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India Oct 18, 2016 Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director, IIT Kharagpur received the prestigious ACCS - CDAC Foundation Award, 2016 Sep 28, 2016 Prof. Santanu Kapat awarded INSA Medal for Young Scientist Award 2016 Sep 28, 2016 Admission CER EMBA GATE GIAN INTPBS JAM JEE(Advanced) JPMM LLB LLM M.Tech MBA MCP MIPA MHRM Ph.D MMST PDF PGDBA QIP Quick Links Academic Calendar 21-22 Academic Calendar 21-22 (1st Year) Academic Calendar 21-22 (Other than 1st Year) Academic Curriculum (UG) UG Curricula New (Admission year 2021 onwards) Academic Curriculum (PG) Announcements Apna IIT KGP Central Library Counselling Centre Degree Verification/ Transcripts/ Certificates ERP Faculty Openings Former Employees For Parents/Guardians For Students Guest House Holidays Internal Complaints Committee International MOU Media Nomination for Chair Professor Non-Teaching Positions Rajbhasha Vibhag Sponsored Research Temporary Jobs Tenders Vendor Registration under GST Web Mail Webmail for students (2020-21 Autumn onwards) Contact Us Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Kharagpur, India - 721302 Phone: +91-3222-255221 FAX : +91-3222-255303 How to reach Campus Map Communication Directory Welcome Freshers COVID-19 Notifications Social Connect External Link N M E I C T Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF) Vidya Lakshmi Portal National Commision for Women (NCW)Helpline number - 7827170170 Website - www.ncwwomenhelpline.in 2016 Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Campus Weather | Feedback | Legal Disclaimer | Webmaster | RTI | Sitemap |
