Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur |About IIT Kharagpur A- A= A+ | A A | Academics Admission UGPGPh.DWelcome FreshersAcademic Units Faculty of Engineering and Architecture (FoE&A)Faculty of Bio-Technology and Bio-Sciences (BTBS)Faculty of Sciences (FoS)Faculty of Humanities, Social & Economic SciencesFaculty of Interdisciplinary Sciences & EngineeringSchool of ManagementSchool of LawLibrary FacilityAcademic Programs ProgramsUG Curricula Old (Admission year till 2020)UG Curricula New (Admission year 2021 onwards)PG CurriculaCalendar 21-22Calendar 21-22 (1st Year)Calender 21-22 (Other than 1st Year)Interdisciplinary Programs International Relations Post Doctoral Fellowship Continuing Education Certificate of Excellence in Research Research Research Areas Research Facilities Research Initiatives Innovations Entrepreneurship IncubationSTEPE CellAcademicTechnology Developed IP Policies Sponsored Research PMRF Students Admission Under GraduatePost GraduatePh.DRules and RegulationsPlacements Student Achievements Financial Assistance Prospective Students Exchange Students Student Life Student Activity CenterSports and GamesSocial and CulturalTechno ManagementEvents and FestivalsHalls of ResidenceHealth and WellnessEateriesStudent Insurance PolicyStudent News Hall Management Centre Student Brotherhood Fund Application for LoanRules and RegulationsStudents Gymkhana Conduct Rules Anti-Ragging MeasuresStudent & Guardian UndertakingGeneral Rules & RegulationsFAQs Faculty Faculty Members in News Prospective Faculty Members Why Join IIT KGPJob OpeningsFaculty Directory Campus Services Health & WellnessSchoolsBank/ATMCampus MapCampus Life Technology ClubGymAquatic SocietyTechnology Film SocietyEvents and FestivalsHeads of Departments Faculty Handbook Industry Placement Licensing Technology Developed Consultancies IP Policies Sponsored Research CSR Initiatives AI4ICPS Home >Academics >Academic Units >Faculty of Sciences (FoS) > Centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere and Land Sciences (CORAL) Academics Faculty of Engg. & Architecture Aerospace Engineering Agricultural and Food Engineering Architecture and Regional Planning Centre for Computational and Data Sciences Centre of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing Technology Centre of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics and Electrical Communication Engg. Energy Science and Engineering Environmental Science and Engineering G.S Sanyal School of Telecommunication Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Mining Engineering Ocean Engg and Naval Architecture Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Mngt. Rubber Technology School of Water Resources Steel Technology Centre Subir Chowdhury School of Quality and Reliability Faculty of Biotechnology & Biosciences Bio Science Biotechnology P.K. Sinha Centre for Bioenergy and Renewables School of Medical Science and Technology Faculty of Sciences Centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere and Land Sciences (CORAL) Chemistry Geology and Geophysics Mathematics Physics Faculty of Humanities, Social & Economic Sciences Center for Rural Development and Innovative Sustainable Technology Humanities and Social Sciences Rekhi Centre of Excellence for the Science of Happiness Faculty of Interdisciplinary Sciences & Engineering Academy of Classical and Folk Arts Advanced Technology Development Centre Centre For Theoretical Studies Centre of Excellence for Indian Knowledge System Centre of Excellence on Safety Engineering & Analytics (COE-SEA) Cryogenic Engineering Deysarkar Centre of Excellence in Petroleum Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science Centre Nano Science and Technology Partha Ghosh Academy of Leadership Rajendra Mishra School of Engg Entrepreneurship School of Management Vinod Gupta School of Management School of Law Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law Centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere and Land Sciences (CORAL) People Toggle Dropdown Faculty Former Faculty Staff Previous Next About the Centre The centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere and Land Sciences (CORAL) at Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur was established in March, 2005 for imparting quality teaching and advanced training in Earth System Science and Technology. The centre is offering a two-year Postgraduate Program i.e. Master of Technology (M. Tech.) in Earth System Science and Technology/MS/PhD programmes. The M. Tech in Earth System Science and Technology by CORAL coincides with the establishment of Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) by the Government of India. The centre is involved in frontier research in atmospheric observations, oceanography, land system studies observationsand modelling. In atmospheric research, the focus is on the observations and modelling of trace gases, atmospheric pollution and severe thunderstorms. We do research in mesoscale simulations of extreme weather events viz., tropical cyclone, heavy rainfall, flash floods, etc. The centre is conducting research in data assimilation and micro-physical processes, urban boundary layer, regional climate, atmospheric chemistry and environmental impact assessment. In oceanography, the current research activities include numerical modelling of Bay of Bengal and Indian Ocean, wave modelling and ocean circulation. Space based measurements, retrievals, validation and assimilation of geophysical parameters of ocean, atmosphere and land specifically specis biodiversity and carbon sequestration are the other areas of research at the centre. In view of India's active research in Antarctica, the centre is focusing on the remote sensing of sea-ice and southern ocean in relation to climate studies too. The centre is having a Computing and Visualization Laboratory for integration of numerical models and visualization of model results and analyses. The centre is actively involved in various sponsored research progammes (funding from INCOIS, MoES, IFS, SAC etc.) and part of Centre of Excellence in Climate Change funded by Department of Science & Technoogy, Govt of India, New Delhi. Read more > < Read less Message from the Head Prof. Anil Kumar Gupta Head of the Centre Contact (Head) Phone: +91-3222-82208 Fax: +91-3222-255303 Email : anilg@gg.iitkgp.ac.in As Head of the Centre of the CORAL, I am happy to invite you all to know about our academic and research activities.Human activities are transforming the earths environment at an unprecedented rate. During the past fifty years, rapid increases in global population and per-capita consumption of resources have led to deteriorating atmospheric conditions, (e.g. global warming, air pollution, ozone depletion, acid rain), Ocean acidification, diminished water quality and availability, harmful land-use practices, and threats to the biosphere (e.g. loss of biodiversity, desertification, deforestation, and degradation of vegetation) which leads to irrevesable coastal vulnerability, change in regional climate, occurrence of extreme evernts and monsoon and more so global climate change. These are having profound influence on the survival of life on this earth. We are working on most of these research problems and looking forward to graduates to participate in these socially relevant scientific problems.. The curriculum of our courses and research activities would also act as a knowledge integrator and scientific innovator towards contributing to the development of predictive Earth System Science that can help to sustain earths habitat, improve environmental quality, and safeguard human health. We would contribute to the policiy makers our research out come to such that they plan suitable measures to mitigate natural disasters and extreme events. I am looking forward to more result oriented and mutually beneficial national and internation collaborations in line with our Centre's thrust research areas. I am looking forward to your queries and suggestions to improve our academic activities. Read more > < Read less Achievements Deb et al.: Second Best Paper award, Int. Biodiversity and Climate Change Workshop S. Nayak: Austrian Academy of Science Scholarship S. Jana: Fulbright Scholarship A. Battacharaya: DAAD Fellowship I. Joshi: DAAD Fellowship V. Goel: DAAD Fellowship S. Joshi: DAAD Fellowship Deb and Chakraborty: Third Best Poster Paper, OSICON 2009 Chitale et al: Third Best Paper award, Int. Biodiversity and Climate Change Workshop Read more > < Read less Research Laboratories Computing Laboratory (Coral) Deep Computing And Visualization Laboratory (Crf) Research Areas Air Pollution&Regional Climate Modeling Antarctic sea ice Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics Bio-geochemical modelling Carbon Sequestration and Biodiversity Climate Change and Climate Modelling Climate dynamics Cryospheric Modeling using RS Cyclones, Heat Waves, Atmospheric Rivers Environmental Geochemistry Environmental Impact Assessment Forest Remote Sensing Global teleconnection GPS Geodesy Internal Waves Land Cover Dynamics Marine/Land Geophysics Metal Biogeochemical cycling Metal pollution Metal speciation Modeling of Extreme Events Modeling of PBL & Air sea Interactions Modelling of Mesoscale Ocean Processes Monsoon dynamics Natural Hazards/Catastrophe Modelling Ocean Data Assimilation Ocean Modeling and Analysis Ocean Modelling and Process Studies Ocean Processes Studies Parameterization- Land Surface Processes Past and future of Earth's Cryosphere Physical Forcing on Biologi. Activity Polar climate change & variability Remote Sensing of the Ocean Surfaces Seismology/Seismic Exploration Upper Equatorial Indian Ocean Dynamics Urban Boundary Layer, UHI Impact-Climate Visualization of 3D Ocean Data Water Masses & Climate Variations Read more > < Read less Faculty Abhishek Kumar Rai Achanta Naga Venkata Satyanarayana Anil Kumar Gupta Arun Chakraborty C Shaji Jayanarayanan Kuttippurath Mihir Kumar Dash Mukunda Dev Behera Parthasarathi Chakraborty Pranab Deb Admission CER EMBA GATE GIAN INTPBS JAM JEE(Advanced) JPMM LLB LLM M.Tech MBA MCP MIPA MHRM Ph.D MMST PDF PGDBA QIP Quick Links Academic Calendar 21-22 Academic Calendar 21-22 (1st Year) Academic Calendar 21-22 (Other than 1st Year) Academic Curriculum (UG) UG Curricula New (Admission year 2021 onwards) Academic Curriculum (PG) Announcements Apna IIT KGP Central Library Counselling Centre Degree Verification/ Transcripts/ Certificates ERP Faculty Openings Former Employees For Parents/Guardians For Students Guest House Holidays Internal Complaints Committee International MOU Media Nomination for Chair Professor Non-Teaching Positions Rajbhasha Vibhag Sponsored Research Temporary Jobs Tenders Vendor Registration under GST Web Mail Webmail for students (2020-21 Autumn onwards) Contact Us Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Kharagpur, India - 721302 Phone: +91-3222-255221 FAX : +91-3222-255303 How to reach Campus Map Communication Directory Welcome Freshers COVID-19 Notifications Social Connect External Link N M E I C T Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF) Vidya Lakshmi Portal National Commision for Women (NCW)Helpline number - 7827170170 Website - www.ncwwomenhelpline.in 2016 Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Campus Weather | Feedback | Legal Disclaimer | Webmaster | RTI | Sitemap |
