Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur |About IIT Kharagpur A- A= A+ | A A | Academics Admission UGPGPh.DWelcome FreshersAcademic Units Faculty of Engineering and Architecture (FoE&A)Faculty of Bio-Technology and Bio-Sciences (BTBS)Faculty of Sciences (FoS)Faculty of Humanities, Social & Economic SciencesFaculty of Interdisciplinary Sciences & EngineeringSchool of ManagementSchool of LawLibrary FacilityAcademic Programs ProgramsUG Curricula Old (Admission year till 2020)UG Curricula New (Admission year 2021 onwards)PG CurriculaCalendar 21-22Calendar 21-22 (1st Year)Calender 21-22 (Other than 1st Year)Interdisciplinary Programs International Relations Post Doctoral Fellowship Continuing Education Certificate of Excellence in Research Research Research Areas Research Facilities Research Initiatives Innovations Entrepreneurship IncubationSTEPE CellAcademicTechnology Developed IP Policies Sponsored Research PMRF Students Admission Under GraduatePost GraduatePh.DRules and RegulationsPlacements Student Achievements Financial Assistance Prospective Students Exchange Students Student Life Student Activity CenterSports and GamesSocial and CulturalTechno ManagementEvents and FestivalsHalls of ResidenceHealth and WellnessEateriesStudent Insurance PolicyStudent News Hall Management Centre Student Brotherhood Fund Application for LoanRules and RegulationsStudents Gymkhana Conduct Rules Anti-Ragging MeasuresStudent & Guardian UndertakingGeneral Rules & RegulationsFAQs Faculty Faculty Members in News Prospective Faculty Members Why Join IIT KGPJob OpeningsFaculty Directory Campus Services Health & WellnessSchoolsBank/ATMCampus MapCampus Life Technology ClubGymAquatic SocietyTechnology Film SocietyEvents and FestivalsHeads of Departments Faculty Handbook Industry Placement Licensing Technology Developed Consultancies IP Policies Sponsored Research CSR Initiatives AI4ICPS Home >Academics >Academic Units >Faculty of Engineering and Architecture (FoE&A) > Aerospace Engineering Academics Faculty of Engg. & Architecture Aerospace Engineering Agricultural and Food Engineering Architecture and Regional Planning Centre for Computational and Data Sciences Centre of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing Technology Centre of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronics and Electrical Communication Engg. Energy Science and Engineering Environmental Science and Engineering G.S Sanyal School of Telecommunication Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Mining Engineering Ocean Engg and Naval Architecture Ranbir and Chitra Gupta School of Infrastructure Design and Mngt. Rubber Technology School of Water Resources Steel Technology Centre Subir Chowdhury School of Quality and Reliability Faculty of Biotechnology & Biosciences Bio Science Biotechnology P.K. Sinha Centre for Bioenergy and Renewables School of Medical Science and Technology Faculty of Sciences Centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere and Land Sciences (CORAL) Chemistry Geology and Geophysics Mathematics Physics Faculty of Humanities, Social & Economic Sciences Center for Rural Development and Innovative Sustainable Technology Humanities and Social Sciences Rekhi Centre of Excellence for the Science of Happiness Faculty of Interdisciplinary Sciences & Engineering Academy of Classical and Folk Arts Advanced Technology Development Centre Centre For Theoretical Studies Centre of Excellence for Indian Knowledge System Centre of Excellence on Safety Engineering & Analytics (COE-SEA) Cryogenic Engineering Deysarkar Centre of Excellence in Petroleum Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Materials Science Centre Nano Science and Technology Partha Ghosh Academy of Leadership Rajendra Mishra School of Engg Entrepreneurship School of Management Vinod Gupta School of Management School of Law Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law Aerospace Engineering People Toggle Dropdown Faculty Former Faculty Staff Previous Next About the Department The department came into existence in 1965 as the Department of Aeronautical Engineering and renamed as the Department of Aerospace Engineering in 1988. Since its inception the department is engaged in imparting education in various aspects of aircraft and space technology. It offers B.Tech, Dual degree and M. Tech programmes in Aerospace Engineering. In addition, research programes lead to MS, joint M. Tech-PhD and PhD degrees also exists. At the present(2015), the faculty strength is 19. The department has 243 UG (including Dual Degree), 50 M. Tech, and 40 PhD scholars. The Department has well-equipped laboratories in the areas of Aerodynamics, Structures, Propulsion, System and Control, Intelligent Systems, Aeromodelling, Computational Fluid Dynamics and Computational Structure Mechanics. The department also has excellent computational laboratories equipped with high performance computational facilities. It also offers adequate facilities to the students to design build and fly remotely controlled/auto-controlled model aircraft including UAVs and MAVs. The department has the unique distinction of having centre of excellence in composites and Computational fluid dynamics and undertaking a large number of sponsored R & D projects and consultancies in different areas of Aerospace Engineering. It is currently running several sponsored research projects from different sponsoring agencies such as Aeronautics R & D Board, DRDO, DRDL, DST, ADA, ISRO, Indian Railway, HAL and others. Several major initiatives to meet the current demand of quality research have been taken. Firstly the department has identified five major Thrust Areas of Research namely Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and related Technologies, Smart and Composite Structures, Experimental and Computational Research on Turbulent Flows, Propulsion & Combustion and Flight Dynamics & Control. Secondly, the department has identified top 10 Journals in Aerospace Engineering and interdisciplinary areas and top 10 academic conferences around the world where the faculty and students are encouraged to publish their research works. Read more > < Read less Message from the Head Prof. Manoranjan Sinha Head of the Department Contact (Head) Phone: +91-3222-283024 Fax: +91-3222-282242, 255303 Email : masinha@aero.iitkgp.ac.in Welcome to the Department of Aerospace Engineering at IIT Kharagpur which offers B. Tech, Dual degree (B. Tech + M. Tech), M. Tech, joint M. Tech-PhD and PhD degrees programme in the aerospace engineering. Since its inception in 1965 the department is engaged in imparting quality education in various aspects of aerospace engineering. The Department aspires to be among the top 20 departments of Aerospace Engineering of the world. It aims to create an ambience in which new ideas and creativity flourish and from which research and scholarship and leaders and innovators of tomorrow emerge. The department has taken several major initiatives over the past four decades to meet the current demand of quality education and research. The department has identified five major Thrust Areas of Research provided in the website. The department has also identified top 10 journals in Aerospace Engineering and interdisciplinary areas and top 10 academic conferences around the world where the faculty and students are encouraged to publish their research work. The department is involved in undertaking a large number of sponsored R & D projects and consultancies and developed collaborations with national and international peers. The department has large number of publications in reputed Journals. According to QS world University rankings by subject 2015, Engineering & Technology: Mechanical, Aeronautical and Manufacturing engineering together of the Institute has been ranked 3rd within the national peers and ranked 59th within the International peers. The Department would like to look back at its inception, growth and development and the role it has played in the field of aerospace over the years. The alumni of this department have occupied important positions in various aerospace organizations and have played key roles in its advancement. If you have further questions after browsing this website, please do not hesitate to contact us. Read more > < Read less Achievements The department ranks 1 and 2 in terms of citations per paper and h index, respectively in the last five years in comparison with all national peers QS ranking by subject 2015 & 2016: Mechanical, Aeronautical and Manufacturing rank in Top 100 in the World. QS Ranking by subject: Mechanical, Aeronautical and Manufacturing rank 1 in terms of Citations per paper and H-index citations among all national peers 5 Departments at IIT Kharagpur have featured in the top 100 list of QS Subject Ranking 2016 namely the departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Electronics and Electrical Communications Engineering have been ranked in the segment of 51-100. While Civil, Mechanical and Aerospace have been ranked consecutively among the top 100 in the past 3 years, Electrical and Electronics have regained their rank among the top 100 after a decline in rank in 2015. For more details about the Departments. The department ranks 3 (about 14%) in terms of contribution towards h-index, i.e., 57 of the institute in the last five years in comparison with other departments/centres/schools within the institute. The department ranks 2 in terms of citations per paper in the last five years in comparison with the departments/centres within the institute across disciplines. The department ranks comparable in terms of citations per paper in the last five years in comparison with top international peers and even better than many international peers. Read more > < Read less Research Laboratories Aerodynamics Aeromodelling Computer Flight Mechanics Propulsion Structures System And Control Systems Wind Tunnel Workshop Read more > < Read less Research Areas Aerospace Propulsion Aerospace Structures Aircraft Structures Alternative aviation fuels Biomedical Cardiovascular Fluid Mechanics Chemically Reacting flows Collision avoidance Combustion Instability Combustion of Metals Combustion of Solid Propellant Composite and Smart Structures Computational Fluid Dynamics Computational Solid Mechanics Design, Guidance and Control of UAV Design of Turbomachines DNS and LES Droplet and Spray Combustion Dynamics and Aeroelasticity Elastic Stability Energy Conversion Experimental aerodynamics Experimental & CFD study of turbomachine Fault detection Flapping Aerodynamics Flapping wing aerodynamics Flight Dynamics Flight Testing Fluid mechanic and Heat transfer Fluid Structure Interaction Heat Transfer high order schemes High Speed Reacting Flows Hydrodynamics Stability Hypersonics Jet Control and Aeroacoustics Jet Control & Base Flows Lattice Boltzmann Method Lattice Boltzmann Methods Low Reynolds No. Aerodynamics Mechanics of Composites Micro Air Vehicle Missile Guidance Multi-agent Systems Optimal Path Planning of UAVs Parameter Estimation Satellite Navigation Systems Sensor fusion Shock-Boundary Layer Interactions Single and Multiphase Fluid Dynamics Smart and Composite Structures Smart Materials and Structures Solar and Wind Energy Conversion Structural Dynamics and Aeroelasticity Structural Health Monitoring System Identification Tensegrity Structures Theoretical & Computational Differential Equations Turbomachines performance augmentation UAV Uncertainty quantification Vibration Damping Wave propagation Read more > < Read less Faculty Akshay Prakash Amardip Ghosh Anup Ghosh Arnab Roy Bhrigu Nath Singh Changduk Kong Chetankumar Sureshbhai Mistry Dipak Kumar Maiti Kalyan Prasad Sinhamahapatra Manas Kumar Laha Manoranjan Sinha Mira Mitra Mohammed Rabius Sunny Mrinal Kaushik Naba Kumar Peyada Prasun Jana Ratan Joarder Sandeep Saha Sikha Hota Somnath Ghosh Srinibas Karmakar Sunil Manohar Dash Suresh Chandra Pradhan Susmita Bhattacharyya Admission CER EMBA GATE GIAN INTPBS JAM JEE(Advanced) JPMM LLB LLM M.Tech MBA MCP MIPA MHRM Ph.D MMST PDF PGDBA QIP Quick Links Academic Calendar 21-22 Academic Calendar 21-22 (1st Year) Academic Calendar 21-22 (Other than 1st Year) Academic Curriculum (UG) UG Curricula New (Admission year 2021 onwards) Academic Curriculum (PG) Announcements Apna IIT KGP Central Library Counselling Centre Degree Verification/ Transcripts/ Certificates ERP Faculty Openings Former Employees For Parents/Guardians For Students Guest House Holidays Internal Complaints Committee International MOU Media Nomination for Chair Professor Non-Teaching Positions Rajbhasha Vibhag Sponsored Research Temporary Jobs Tenders Vendor Registration under GST Web Mail Webmail for students (2020-21 Autumn onwards) Contact Us Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Kharagpur, India - 721302 Phone: +91-3222-255221 FAX : +91-3222-255303 How to reach Campus Map Communication Directory Welcome Freshers COVID-19 Notifications Social Connect External Link N M E I C T Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF) Vidya Lakshmi Portal National Commision for Women (NCW)Helpline number - 7827170170 Website - www.ncwwomenhelpline.in 2016 Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Campus Weather | Feedback | Legal Disclaimer | Webmaster | RTI | Sitemap |
