Home | Online Directory | KU Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory Online Directory Home Advanced Search Departments Help Manage Personal Accounts Login IMPORTANT: This service requires the use of JavaScript to function. Unless you enable JavaScript within your browser, you will not be able to proceed effectively. People Search People search helps you find people in the KU Community. Enter a person's first name and/or last name to search for that person. You will need to sign in to search for Students and to see phone numbers or download email encryption certificates for Faculty/Staff. Faculty/Staff Student Both Name: Contact Information Technology| itcsc@ku.edu| 785-864-8080 This directory is a public record. It is a violation of Kansas State Law to knowingly give, sell or receive names and/or addresses from a public record for the purposes of selling or offering for sale any property or service to persons listed therein. Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Attention You need to be a KU community member to search for students. Login to continue. Login Back Error
