Eric Paulos | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Toggle navigation EECS at UC Berkeley Main menuAboutToggle submenu for AboutAbout Overview By the Numbers Diversity History Special Events Visiting AcademicsToggle submenu for AcademicsAcademics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs For Current Students Courses ResearchToggle submenu for ResearchResearch Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleToggle submenu for PeoplePeople Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Students Staff Alumni ConnectToggle submenu for ConnectConnect Overview Support EECS K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Contact Secondary menuHome For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Toggle Search Search form Search Search Home People Faculty Eric Paulos Larger Photo Eric Paulos Professor Info Links Research Areas Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), New Media Arts Research Centers Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM) SWARM Lab CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Arts Research Center (ARC) Jacobs Institute for Design Innovation (JIDI) Teaching Schedule Spring 2022 CS 198-80. Extended Reality Development DeCal, Mo 5:00PM - 6:59PM, CS 198-808. Extended Reality Development DeCal, We 5:00PM - 6:59PM, Biography Eric Paulos is the founder and director of the Hybrid Ecologies Lab, an Associate Professor in Electrical Engineering Computer Science Department at UC Berkeley, Director of the CITRIS Invention Lab, Chief Learning Officer for the Jacobs Institute for Design Innovation, a Co-Director of the Swarm Lab, and faculty within the Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM). Previously, Eric held the Cooper-Siegel Associate Professor Chair in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University where he was faculty within the Human-Computer Interaction Institute with courtesy faculty appointments in the Robotics Institute and in the Entertainment Technology Center. At CMU he founded and directed the Living Environments Lab.Prior to CMU, Eric was a Senior Research Scientist at Intel Research in Berkeley, California where he founded the Urban Atmospheres research group - challenged to employ innovative methods to explore urban life and the future fabric of emerging technologies across public urban landscapes. His areas of expertise span a deep body of research territory in critical making, design research, urban computing, sustainability, social telepresence, robotics, physical computing, interaction design, persuasive technologies, and intimate media.Eric is a leading figure in the field of urban computing, coining the term in 2004, and a regular contributor, editorial board member, and reviewer for numerous professional journals and conferences. Eric received his PhD in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from UC Berkeley where he helped launch a new robotic industry by developing some of the first internet tele-operated robots including Space Browsing helium filled blimps and Personal Roving Presence devices (PRoPs).Eric is also the founder and director of the Experimental Interaction Unit and a frequent collaborator with Mark Pauline of Survival Research Laboratories. Eric's work has been exhibited at the InterCommunication Center (ICC) in Japan, Ars Electronica, ISEA, SIGGRAPH, the Dutch Electronic Art Festival (DEAF), SFMOMA, the Chelsea Art Museum, Art Interactive, LA MOCA, Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, the ZKM, Southern Exposure, and a performance for the opening of the Whitney Museum's 1997 Biennial Exhibition. Selected Publications C. Torres, M. J. Nicholas, S. Lee, and E. Paulos, "A Conversation with Actuators: An Exploratory Design Environment for Hybrid Materials," in Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction, E. Paulos, Ed., TEI '19, New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2019, pp. 657--667. C. Torres, S. Sterman, M. Nicholas, R. Lin, E. Pai, and E. Paulos, "Guardians of Practice: A Contextual Inquiry of Failure-Mitigation Strategies Within Creative Practices," in Proceedings of the 2018 Designing Interactive Systems Conference, E. Paulos, Ed., DIS '18, New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2018, pp. 1259--1267. C. Torres, J. O'Leary, M. Nicholas, and E. Paulos, "Illumination Aesthetics: Light As a Creative Material Within Computational Design," in Proceedings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, E. Paulos, Ed., CHI '17, New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2017, pp. 6111--6122. Links and Contact Info Links Personal Homepage Dissertations Contact Information paulos@berkeley.edu Office Hours See Homepage www.paulos.net Research Support "Damon" "Hinson" 2-3001 "damonh@berkeley.edu" Home AboutHistory Diversity Visiting Special Events AcademicsUndergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students ResearchAreas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleDirectory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni ResourcesRoom Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads GSIs/Readers/Tutors IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars IndustryRecruit Students Entrepreneurial Activity Corporate Access ConnectSupport Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Contact Home EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Berkley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube 2021 UC Regents Privacy Policy
