Stuart J. Russell | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Toggle navigation EECS at UC Berkeley Main menuAboutToggle submenu for AboutAbout Overview By the Numbers Diversity History Special Events Visiting AcademicsToggle submenu for AcademicsAcademics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs For Current Students Courses ResearchToggle submenu for ResearchResearch Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleToggle submenu for PeoplePeople Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Students Staff Alumni ConnectToggle submenu for ConnectConnect Overview Support EECS K-12 Outreach Student Affairs Faculty Positions Contact Secondary menuHome For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Toggle Search Search form Search Search Home People Faculty Stuart J. Russell Larger Photo Stuart J. Russell Professor Info Links Research Areas Artificial Intelligence (AI) Control, Intelligent Systems, and Robotics (CIR) Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO) machine learning; real-time decision-making; algorithms; probabilistic reasoning; computational biology Research Centers Center for Human Compatible Artificial Intelligence (CHAI) Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM) CITRIS People and Robots (CPAR) Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing (SITC) Synthetic Biology Institute (SBI) Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab (BAIR) Teaching Schedule Fall 2021 CS 294-190. Advanced topics in learning and decision making, TuTh 2:00PM - 3:29PM, Internet/Online Spring 2022 CS 188. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence, TuTh 2:00PM - 3:29PM, Wheeler 150 Biography Stuart Russell received his B.A. with first-class honours in physics from Oxford University in 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford in 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor of Neurological Surgery at UC San Francisco and Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum's Council on AI and Robotics. Russell is a recipient of the Presidential Young Investigator Award of the National Science Foundation, the IJCAI Computers and Thought Award, the World Technology Award (Policy category), the Mitchell Prize of the American Statistical Association and the International Society for Bayesian Analysis, the ACM Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, and the AAAI/EAAI Outstanding Educator Award. In 1998, he gave the Forsythe Memorial Lectures at Stanford University and from 2012 to 2014 he held the Chaire Blaise Pascal in Paris. He is a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, the Association for Computing Machinery, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. His research covers a wide range of topics in artificial intelligence including machine learning, probabilistic reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, real-time decision making, multitarget tracking, computer vision, computational physiology, global seismic monitoring, and philosophical foundations. His books include "The Use of Knowledge in Analogy and Induction", "Do the Right Thing: Studies in Limited Rationality" (with Eric Wefald), and "Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach" (with Peter Norvig). His current concerns include the threat of autonomous weapons and the long-term future of artificial intelligence and its relation to humanity. Education 1986, PhD, Computer Science, Stanford University 1982, BA Hons (1st class), Physics, Oxford University Selected Publications B. Milch, B. Marthi, S. J. Russell, D. Sontag, D. L. Ong, and A. Kolobov, "BLOG: Probabilistic models with unknown objects," in Proc. 19th Intl. Joint Conf. on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-2005), L. Pack Kaelbling and A. Saffiotti, Eds., Rochester Hills, MI: IJCAI, Inc., 2005, pp. 1352-1359. D. Andre and S. J. Russell, "Programmable reinforcement learning agents," in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 13: Proc. 14th Annual Conf. (NIPS 2000), T. K. Leen, T. G. Dietterich, and V. Tresp, Eds., Bradford Books, Vol. 13, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001, pp. 1019-1025. T. Huang and S. J. Russell, "Object identification: A Bayesian analysis with application to traffic surveillance," Artificial Intelligence: Special Issue on Artificial Intelligence 40 Years Later, vol. 103, no. 1-2, pp. 77-93, Aug. 1998. S. J. Russell, "Rationality and intelligence," Artificial Intelligence: Special Issue on Economic Principles of Multi-Agent Systems, vol. 94, no. 1-2, pp. 57-77, July 1997. S. J. Russell and E. Wefald, "Principles of metareasoning," Artificial Intelligence, vol. 49, no. 1-3, pp. 361-395, May 1991. Awards, Memberships and Fellowships Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, 2021 Andrew Carnegie Fellowship, 2019 AAAI Feigenbaum Prize (formerly the Feigenbaum Medal), 2019 Honorary Fellow of Wadham College, 2018 AAAI - EAAI Outstanding Educator Award, 2016 World Technology Policy Award, 2015 Mitchell Prize, 2014 American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Fellow, 2011 Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, 2005 Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Fellow, 2003 Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) Fellow, 1997 Computers and Thought Award, 1994 NSF Presidential Young Investigator (PYI), 1990 Links and Contact Info Links Personal Homepage Publications Dissertations Contact Information 740 Sutardja Dai Hall tel: 510-642-4964 russell@cs.berkeley.edu Research Support "Judy" "Tam" 4971370 "j_tam@berkeley.edu" Home AboutHistory Diversity Visiting Special Events AcademicsUndergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students ResearchAreas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleDirectory Leadership Faculty Staff Students Alumni ResourcesRoom Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads GSIs/Readers/Tutors IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars IndustryRecruit Students Entrepreneurial Activity Corporate Access ConnectSupport Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Contact Home EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Berkley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube 2021 UC Regents Privacy Policy
